xinhua news agency , hong kong , february 23 rd
according to taiwan 's " ministry of economy " statistics , the volume of trade between mainland and taiwan last year was 20.9 billion us dollars .
of this volume , the value of taiwan 's exports to the mainland was 17.8 billion us dollars , having increased by 20 percent compared with last year ; the import value was 3.1 billion us dollars , having increased by 74 percent compared with last year .
taiwan 's surplus in trade between the two shores was 14.7 billion us dollars .
statistics also revealed that taiwanese business investments in the mainland is tending to increase .
last year , the number of investment proposals presented by taiwanese businesses and approved by taiwan authorities totaled 490 , with a value of 1.092 billion us dollars .
the number of investment projects dropped by 444 as compared with last year , but the value of investments rose by more than 130 million us dollars as compared with last year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , february 24 th
nowadays the ancient beijing @-@ hangzhou grand canal not only plays an important role in north @-@ south transportation , but has also brought about a thriving industry corridor , resulting in the formation of the grand canal economic belt .
the beijing @-@ hangzhou grand canal has been prosperous since ancient times , with both sides of the bank swarming with merchants and well @-@ developed trade .
with china 's renovation of the grand canal , its watercourse conditions have been greatly improved . many enterprises have successively taken a fancy for this " golden waterway " and are now actively investing in building factories . canal bank enterprises are spread all over the place .
preliminary statistics show that there are more than 2,000 enterprises with a transportation volume of over 10,000 tons and small township enterprises are countless .
as a main artery of water transportation , the grand canal provides the enterprises along its banks with the convenience of transportation , water supply and drainage becoming a thoroughfare of life for the development of the enterprises .
according to the person in charge at the jiangsu steel group , the company annually transports 1.5 million tons of raw materials and finished products via the grand canal .
among those , the transportation of coal from xuzhou is 15 yuan cheaper per ton by canal than by land . this alone saves more than 20 million yuan in costs for the factory each year .
after the renovation of the canal , the jiangsu steel group built a new factory district on the opposite bank . using its own funds , it also built a large bridge spanning the canal to connect the new and old factories together .
the enterprises along the canal involve industries such as iron & steel , electrical power , building material , machinery , etc. , most of which are pillars of the local economy .
within the 0.5 square kilometer area of changzhou along the canal there are 186 large @-@ scale factory and mining enterprises .
among the ten pillar industries which are particularly cultivated by changzhou , 7 of the big industries such as the power machinery industry , the auto industry , the engineering machinery industry , the electric transmission and transformation equipment industry , etc. , are all dispersed along the canal .
there are more than 500 enterprises along the canal in wuxi city , with more than 50 large scale enterprises having a production value of over a hundred million yuan , becoming the main backbone of the economic development of wuxi city .
scattered along the canal in zhenjiang city are 435 enterprises of all kinds with an annual production value of 2.2 billion yuan and taxes of 168 million yuan . these enterprises are the main backbone of zhenjiang 's economy .
more than 130 enterprises of all kinds are built along the riverside in yangzhou city . most of the famous brand products , pillar industries , export @-@ oriented economy of this city are scattered along the canal , becoming a new growth point for yangzhou 's economy .
the large @-@ scale renovation of the grand canal has improved the investment environment of the cities and counties along the canal , has attracted foreign investment with its benefit of advantageous water transportation , and has promoted the development of an export @-@ oriented economy .
most of the key foreign investment utilization projects and investment attraction projects of changzhou city are scattered on both sides of the canal .
in recent years , there have been eight solely owned foreign enterprises that build their factories along the grand canal and are relied on by zhenjiang city with even more joint ventures .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , february 29 th
a few days ago , the national development bank successfully issued 30 billion yen of samurai bonds to japan 's capital market .
this is the first time that the national development bank has issued bonds on the international capital market , with japan nomura securities corp . and the industrial bank of japan securities corp . being the main co @-@ issuers , and having a maturation time of ten years with a lump sum payment at maturation .
according to investigations , the conditions for this issuing of samurai bonds have been fairly preferential in recent years . the funds raised will be used mainly for key national construction projects , such as the guangdong ling ' ao nuclear power project , yimin electric power plant , suizhong electric power plant , etc.
since its establishment , the national development bank has raised large quantities of capital for key national construction projects .
( end )
xinhua news agency , haikou , february 3 rd , by reporter xin hu
concerned experts from the reform and development research institute of china ( hainan ) recently put forward a series of proposals on the further expansion of hainan 's opening up to the outside world .
experts think that among the five special economic zones in china , hainan 's geographical location , resource conditions and economic development situation are comparatively special , and it should further expand its opening up to the outside world and take the lead in bringing about the coupling of asia @-@ pacific region economic integration and international trade liberalization .
proposals also put forward a series of concrete measures and key points of policy to be realized in the near future .
( end )
xinhua news agency , taiyuan , february 7 , by reporter baohong shan and intern jingguo hu
the fenglingdu economic development zone , that people call the ' golden triangle ' of the yellow river , located at the juncture of three provinces in china @-@ shanxi , shaanxi and henan @-@ increasingly attracts attention from domestic and foreign businessmen and is becoming a new investing hotspot .
the fenglingdu economic development zone is the only one within the borders of china built on the basis of a small town . it is also a new channel for shanxi , an inland province , to contact the outside world .
after more than three years ' construction , this development zone has begun to take shape and has become a comprehensive wholesale market for the circulation of a variety of commodities , such as timber , medicine , tobacco , clothing , grain and oil , industrial products , etc.
the rapidly growing golden triangle draws the attention of overseas traveling merchants . at present , there have been more than 50 financial groups and traveling merchants from such countries and regions as the us , france , japan , korea , taiwan , etc. holding negotiations for 31 projects with a total investment as high as 320 million yuan .
( end )
xinhua news agency , yichang , march 8 th , by reporter yongfeng shi
the three gorges project on the yangtze river has recently introduced the first foreign capital .
the loan , a sum of 12.5 million us dollars , is an export credit provided to the three gorges project by the canadian government , which will be used mainly for the management system of the three gorges project .
the project management system of the three gorges project will introduce scientific management methods and advanced computer technology of the mai corp . of canada , which uses the project database management system as the core component in its control and management of the whole process of designing , planning , contracting , financing , goods and materials , equipment , construction and installation of each subproject of the three gorges project .
in october of 1995 , youmei lu , the general manager of the three gorges project development corporation of china , went to canada to sign the related business contracts .
this export credit project is entrusted to the bank of china as the acting bank , and its commercial agent is the china electronics import and export corporation .
on february 28 th , the three gorges branch of the bank of china signed the agreement contract with the yangtze river three gorges project development corporation of china to transfer the loan of the project .
( end )
xinhua news agency , fuzhou , march 10 , by wire ( reporter ting xu )
among village @-@ and @-@ town enterprise development , which accounts for " half of the province " of fujian 's gross economic volume , the southeast fujian area continues to play the dragon 's head role .
last year , the gross economic magnitude of the village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises of the five regional cities of fuzhou , xiamen , quanzhou , zhangzhou and putian accounted for over 70 % in the whole province .
according to fujian village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises bureau statistics , in 1995 , the total output value of fujian province 's village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises reached 238.15 billion yuan rmb , of which 155.9 billion yuan rmb was from industrial output , creating a profit in the whole year of 10.9 billion yuan rmb .
the gnp created by village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises accounted for approximately 1 @/@ 3 of fujian province ' gnp .
during the " eighth five @-@ year plan " period ( 1991 @-@ 1995 ) , fujian province village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises turned over a total of 18.56 billion yuan rmb in taxes , with completed export delivery volume of 105.5 billion yuan rmb .
there are already 11 village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises in the entire province that have ascended to the ranks of china 's " village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises with the best economic benefit " .
at present , a bunch of village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises or village @-@ and @-@ town enterprise groups which possess higher technology and have comparatively sufficient development stamina have emerged in fujian province .
according to statistics , among the 191 village @-@ and @-@ town enterprise groups founded in the entire province , over 50 have achieved an output value of over 100 million yuan rmb . some have even reached output volumes of 500 million to 1 billion yuan rmb .
the fuxing investment zone in fuzhou 's gushan town and the qiaotou industrial zone in jinjiang 's anhai have both become national models of village @-@ and @-@ town enterprises .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , march 18 th
general electric of the us and the southwest medical equipment factory of the medical appliance industry company of china recently signed a contract to jointly invest 6 million us dollars to establish a joint venture enterprise in chengdu .
it is reported that this is the 14 th joint venture enterprise to be established in china by the investment by general electric .
at present , the total amount of investment of ge in china has reached 150 million us dollars .
this new enterprise , named chengdu general medical equipment ( southwest ) co. , ltd . , will be engaged mainly in developing , producing , manufacturing , assembling and marketing x @-@ ray equipment for medical diagnoses purposes , in import and export trade , consultation and technical cooperation , etc.
apart from setting up joint venture enterprises , ge also invested more than 1 billion us dollars in china by means of airplane and container leasing .
ge now has more than 8,000 employees in china .
moreover , in 1994 , ge purchased more than 40 million us dollars in products in china , and planned to increase purchasing volume of chinese products in the next two years .
( end )
xinhua news agency , shenyang , march 19 , by wire
liaoning , a large industrial province of china , in the beginning of this year , comprehensively increased import and export trade .
in the first two months of this year , the total value of import and export trade reached 1.24 billion us dollars , increasing 6 % over the same period last year .
according to statistics , from january to february of this year , the total export volume of liaoning achieved 1 billion us dollars , increasing by 4.7 percent over the same period last year , including 780 million us dollars of local product export which was mainly finished products .
the foreign trade export proportion of liaoning 's three @-@ capital enterprises has started to increase . in january and february , the export volume of three @-@ capital enterprises for the whole province reached 260 million us dollars , which was twice as much as that of the same period last year , and 12 percent higher than the total export volume of the whole province in the same period last year .
at present , liaoning province possesses more than 100 import and export companies varying in business and administration at the province , city , and county level . there are more than 200 large and medium @-@ sized manufacturing enterprises with import and export authorization and more than 1500 foreign @-@ invested enterprises doing import and export business .
last year , the total achieved import and export volume was 10.99 billion us dollars .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , march 23 rd , by reporter wen chao
approved by the bank of china , five insurance companies such as the taikang life insurance stock company ltd . , etc. , are anxiously preparing to be established .
it was found that among the five insurance companies to be recently established , three are national and two are regional .
dongsheng chen , director of the preparatory office of taikang life insurance company , ltd . , says that the company will be established according to the modern enterprise system , that it was initiated by china international travel service , and the china foreign trade transportation head company , etc. , and that it will raise 500 million yuan rmb as enterprise juridical person's capital stock .
there are 26 insurance companies now in china and more than one hundred overseas insurance companies that have established administrative organizations in china .
people in insurance circles say that as china's insurance market gradually opens to the outside world , it is extremely important to develop national insurance business quickly .
the five insurance companies approved to be established this time can be said to be a big move .
( end )
xinhua news agency , guangzhou , march 28 th , by reporter xiaohui che
the three policy adjustments for foreign economy and trade to be implemented by the state this year include : reducing the export tax refund rate , implementing the bank accounting system of deposits for imported raw materials and parts for the processing trade , and canceling of preferential duty free treatment for imported equipment .
of the three adjustments , the bank accounting system of deposits for the processing trade to be implemented nationally in july became the focus of concern of visiting businessmen from hong kong and macao .
according to presentations , in recent years , foreign economy and trade in guangdong has been rapidly developing , including customer 's processed materials , imported processed materials , and processing trade undertaken by foreign investment enterprises , which occupies quite a large proportion .
last year , the total export value of guangdong 's processing trade reached 40 billion us dollars , accounting for approximately 80 % of the province 's total export value .
among that , half of regular trade , 100 % of customer 's material processing and more than eighty percent of the processing by foreign investment enterprises belong to processing trade exports .
at present there are more than five million people in the province engaged in the processing trade . enterprises in the " three sources of raw materials and one compensation " production alone have reached more than 30,000 engaging over two million employees .
in recent years , manufacturers from taiwan have also established more than 7,000 processing enterprises in guangdong .
the processing trade occupies a crucial position in the development of foreign economy and trade in guangdong and at the same time is important content in the economic and trade cooperation between guangdong , hong kong , macao and taiwan .
a relevant person in charge from the committee of foreign economic relations and trade of guangdong points out that the implementation of the accounting system for the processing trade is to perfect supervision of the processing trade , to fill in management loopholes , to prevent the loss of national revenue and to promote healthy development of the processing trade .
after implementing the accounting system of deposits , customs will no longer levy risk deposits equivalent to the tax for imported materials and parts from enterprises dealing with normally developing processing trade , but at the time an account is established with the bank , collect a handling charge of one hundred yuan , and therefore , will lighten the actual economic burden .
according to reports , in dongguan city , a processing trade accounting system experimental city , dongguan area customs received in total more than 8,400 contract records from enterprises from december 27 th of last year to march 15 th of this year , slightly increasing compared to before the experiment . enterprises have reacted favorably and have generally expressed acceptance .
( end )
xinhua news agency , guangzhou , april 16 th , by reporter wenjian mou and guangzhi ling
relying on the 300,000 ton maoming ethylene project , the shuidong development zone continuously strengthens its attraction for overseas investment and is becoming the new investment hotspot of southern china .
xiaolue liang , the vice director of the shuidong development administrative committee , says that since the establishment of the development zone in march , 1992 , foreign businessmen from more than twenty countries and regions , such as japan , germany , south korea , the us , etc. , have signed contracts with a total planned investment reaching 4.5 billion yuan rmb for ethylene product follow @-@ up processing projects in the shuidong development zone .
thus , currently , traveling businessmen in the shuidong development zone that have already signed agreements or contracts has reached more than 750 , including those from over twenty domestic provinces and cities , with a total investment that will top 15 billion yuan and actual capital in place of more than 3 billion yuan , with the number of projects already under construction reaching more than 160 .
the shuidong development zone , located in maoming city in western guangdong and occupying an area of over 80 square kilometers , is a follow @-@ up processing base established to meet the needs of the ethylene project .
the possession a natural year @-@ round deep @-@ water ice @-@ free port is a favorable condition of the shuidong development zone for developing ethylene follow @-@ up processing projects .
in recent years , the development zone built several berths at the 10,000 ton class , 20,000 ton class , 30,000 ton class and 50,000 ton class on the base of its original two 3000 ton class berths .
the whole country 's largest single @-@ point mooring , crude oil loading and unloading system of 250,000 tons has already been put into use .
the annual handling capacity of the port is nearly 15 million tons and the zone has been approved by the state council to be a first @-@ class open port .
this aside , the shuidong development zone has invested several hundred million yuan in the construction of infrastructure such as roads , water supply , electricity supply , telecommunications , etc.
currently , municipal roads within the development zone have formed the modern pattern of " three longitudes and six latitudes " . other installations are also being perfected daily , resulting in the creation of conditions for large scale development and construction .
it is reported that the maoming 300,000 ton ethylene project will formally turn on production in the second half of this year . some large scale international enterprises are also accelerating preparation work for construction of the follow @-@ up processing projects , included among them are japan 's itochu corporation and korea 's lg chemical group which invests 3 billion yuan and 1.5 billion yuan respectively .
the hong kong decheng chemical co. , ltd. has invested 250 million yuan rmb to construct a 20,000 ton level polyester slicing project and has also signed a contract , established the project and is ready to enter the overall construction preparation phase .
by the end of last year , the shuidong development zone established enterprises of different kinds reaching more than 2,400 , with total industrial output reaching 884 million yuan .
after the ethylene project begins its production , the shuidong development zone will hopefully enter the overall output period and its total industrial output will realize a relatively large margin of increase .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , april 5 th , by reporter guocheng jiang
" five years ago , when china 's digital telephone program @-@ controlled switch market was monopolized by various brands of foreign products , we worried about whether china could successfully develop digital program @-@ controlled switches . today , domestically produced high @-@ performance telephone program @-@ controlled telephone switches already account for 36 % of the domestic market share . "
" when china 's national meteorological bureau bought mainframe computers from cray inc . of the u.s. , it just sold us two processors .
today , the maximum computing speed of the ' dawn 1000 ' computer we developed ourselves has already reached 2.5 billion operations per second , exceeding the speed of the computer sold to us by cray inc . "
this is part of the speech delivered at the working meeting of the " 863 program " today by jian song , state council member and concurrently director of the national science commission .
the " 863 program " is china 's high @-@ tech research program , initiated in 1986 .
western developed countries have always restricted the export of important high @-@ tech products , such as high @-@ performance large @-@ scale digital telephone program @-@ controlled switches and supercomputers , to china .
jian song said that " today , china is capable of producing more than 10,000 sets of digital telephone program @-@ controlled switches , and the chief designer of this kind of switch is only 28 years old , graduating from wuhan university . "
most of the research staff who successfully developed the ' dawning 1000 ' computer last year are young people about 30 years old .
today , jian song said to hundreds of high @-@ tech experts representatives and science and technology officials attending the meeting : " the series of achievements we have made in the development and industrialization of high @-@ tech help us to further overcome timid thoughts that high @-@ tech is unattainable . they have greatly enhanced our whole nation 's courage and confidence in realizing socialist modernization . "
the " 863 program " , with a total investment of 10 billion yuan rmb and a duration of 15 years , since its implementation in 1986 , has gained breakthroughs in a large number of significant key fields of technology . it has greatly narrowed the gap between china 's high @-@ tech and the internationally advanced levels , and has promoted the modernization of civilian industry and the national defense industry .
in the civilian fields of biotechnology , information technology , automation technology , energy technology and new materials technology alone , more than 1200 research achievements have been made , of which 560 have reached internationally advanced levels .
this aside , china has scheduled more than 400 research projects in the fields of aerospace technology and laser technology , involving space science and application , jumbo carrier rockets , space stations , space shuttle transportation systems , and has made phased achievements in certain key technology fields .
jian song also cited the significant achievements that the internationally advanced level gained in fields such as agricultural biotechnology , biomedicine , genetic engineering , lasers , robotics , etc. for example , a chinese developed genetically engineered hepatitis b vaccine and an " a " interferon for blocking the progress of hepatitis b have entered the market , which is good news for the 120 million hepatitis b virus carriers in china .
later stages of hepatitis b often develop into liver cancer .
china has determined its focus of high @-@ tech research for the coming five years , and set about drawing up the next century 's high @-@ tech research plans .
finally , jian song said , " whether our own high @-@ tech and its industry can be successful is related to the success or failure of china 's undertaking of modernization , and is related to the rise and fall of the chinese people .
to vigorously develop high @-@ tech and establish a powerful national high @-@ tech industry in our country as soon as possible is an urgent task currently facing china 's scientific and technological circles and economic circles . "
( end )
xinhua news agency , shanghai , december 9 th , by reporters xierong zhou and bin lu
shanghai , china 's largest city , has determined to seize this century 's last three years development opportunities to realize per capita gdp of 5000 us dollars by 2000 .
after recent years ' rapid growth , shanghai 's per capita gdp will surpass 3000 us dollars this year .
whereas in 1992 this figure was only 1500 us dollars .
according to analysis and measurement by experts of the shanghai municipal planning commission , to realize the goal of per capita gdp of 5000 us dollars by 2000 , in the next three years , the annual average growth rate of shanghai gdp must reach 10 % to 11 % .
kuangdi xu , mayor of shanghai , optimistically expressed that for shanghai , which is now in the best economic development environment in history , this growth rate is completely reachable .
the figures issued by the shanghai statistical bureau show that , from 1992 to 1996 , the average annual growth of shanghai 's gdp was 14.2 % , and this year 's growth rate will reach over 13 % .
zhan wang , director of the shanghai municipal government 's development research center , believes that in the next three years the trend of world economic development and the policy orientation of national macroscopic control will , on the whole , be advantageous for shanghai 's economic development , whereas the rapid growth of shanghai 's economy in the past six years has laid a great foundation for the next three years of development .
experts from shanghai 's industries such as finance , commerce , trade and shipping , etc. , believe that , in the next three years , the third industry will make greater contributions to shanghai 's gdp .
brought along by such economic growth points as capital market , insurance , chain commerce , wholesale marketing , container transport , real estate , information services , etc. , the third added value industry is estimated to have an average annual growth of 11 % to 12 % , and the proportion of the third industry in gdp will also increase from 43 % in 1996 to 48 % in 2000 .
at the same time as this , the fast @-@ growing strong " three @-@ capital " enterprises and people @-@ managed and privately managed economies will also maintain rapid growth .
zheng han , director of the shanghai planning committee says that in the next three years the appropriate growth of shanghai 's consumer demand could also support the average annual gdp growth rate to reach 10 % to 11 % .
kuangdi xu , mayor of shanghai , stresses that realizing per capita gdp of 5000 us dollars in shanghai by the end of this century is well @-@ grounded and possible ; but shanghai is also facing the pressure of intensified market competition and the problems of some outstanding contradictions in its economic life .
he says that to meet the challenge and meet the goal , shanghai will promote a new round of industry restructuring , boldly implement state @-@ owned enterprise reforms , and actively exploit new fields for opening up to the outside world to allow shanghai 's economy to again move onto a new stage .
( end )
xinhua news agency , hong kong , december 1 st
today , jianhua dong , chief executive of the hong kong sar , expressed welcome to " the 1998 economic freedom index report " issued by the american traditional foundation which believes that hong kong continues to be the freest economic system in the world .
dr. holmes , vice president of the american traditional foundation , and clowich , vice president of the dow @-@ jones company led a high level delegation comprised of the traditional foundation and the " wall street journal " to submit the results of the report to jianhua dong this morning .
the report by the traditional foundation and the " wall street journal " confirms that the hong kong 's economic structure has remained unchanged since returning to china .
the traditional foundation says that this index has sometimes been used by investors as an investment guide .
when commenting on the index , jianhua dong said that hong kong had been the freest economic system in the world for four years running .
he stressed that hong kong would make efforts to maintain free trade and strengthen hong kong 's economic competitiveness .
( end )
xinhua news agency , changsha , december 15 th , by reporter yifei zhang
this reporter learned from the foreign friendship association exchange conference in some chinese provinces and cities , which was held in hunan recently , that china already has about 200 cities that have established more than 800 pairs of foreign friendship cities with more than 500 cities in over 80 countries of the world .
huiluo bi , director of the business office of the chinese people 's foreign friendship association said that " the friendship cities have enhanced understanding and friendship everywhere between china and foreign countries . they have also developed relations between countries and have conducted all kinds of exchange and cooperation in such areas as industry , agriculture , economy and trade , culture and education , etc. "
he believed that the friendship cities had now become the main channel for people @-@ to @-@ people foreign affairs .
it is reported that , in 1973 , the city of tianjin in china and kobe in japan established the first pair of friendship cities between china and a foreign country .
since china 's reform and opening up , the number of friendship cities between china and foreign countries has been increasing at a rate of about 50 pairs each year . among these cities , about 80 % of the pairs are distributed along the coastal belt , most of which are in economically developed jiangsu and shandong .
however , with the rising of china 's economy as a whole and the improvement of transportation and investment conditions in the mid and western areas of china , the number of paired cities in the mid and western provinces areas has obviously increased in recent years .
among the foreign countries that have established friendship cities with china , japan has the most .
it is reported that the establishment of friendship cities has promoted the development of foreign economy and trade in various areas in china .
according to incomplete statistics , in the past 5 years , various provinces have held or taken part in more than 600 trade and marketing exhibition activities of various kinds through the channel of friendship cities , having completed transactions of more than 6 billion us dollars , and introducing more than 1,200 solely invested and jointly invested projects of various kinds , and attracting nearly 10 billion us dollars of foreign capital .
( end )
xinhua news agency , tianjin , december 25 th , by reporters jianchang li and intern suhong ge
tianjin , the largest coastal city in northern china , while attracting foreign merchant investment , also encourages enterprises to invest and build factories overseas .
at present , the number of tianjin enterprises of various types that have overseas investments exceed 300 , and the total investment value exceeds 100 million us dollars .
according to reports from the committee of foreign economy and trade of tianjin , these more than 300 overseas enterprises are involved in industries such as import and export trade , production and processing , medical treatment and health , tourism , catering , engineering contracts , etc. , and are spread over more than sixty countries and regions .
the catering industry is one of the key overseas investments of tianjin .
the " medicinal diet " established in singapore by tianjin attracts the attention of local political figures .
the famous tianjin snack shop , goubuli steamed bun , established special permit franchise chain shops in countries such as japan , korea , us , etc.
it is reported that next year the committee of foreign economy and trade of tianjin will continue to adopt measures to organize and guide a number of enterprises overseas to invest and build factories .
currently , this city has already established a relevant database to provide investment partners and projects through chinese embassies and institutions in foreign countries , and foreign embassies and institutions in china .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 16 th , by reporter haisheng yu
today , the henan provincial government and more than 100 representatives from 88 foreign investment financial institutions stationed in beijing held an economic cooperation negotiation conference here to promote mutual understanding between henan province and international finance circles , and to open financing channels for henan's economic development .
kershye , chairman of the foreign capital financial organization stationed in beijing and chief representative of the belgian general bank's beijing representative office , expressed at the conference that the foreign capital financial institutions stationed in beijing intend make contributions to henan province 's economic construction and the development of china 's middle and western regions .
chengyu li , standing vice governor of henan province , presented the province's natural resources and economic development situation at the conference .
he said that henan province possessed not only the hardware required for foreign investment , but also integrated the reality of this province to formulate a preferential policy to encourage foreign investors to invest and develop foreign economic , trade and technological cooperation on the basis of national policies .
concerned departments of the henan provincial government promulgated this province's foreign economy and technological cooperation projects at the conference , and conference representatives negotiated on the cooperative intention of related projects .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , dec . 17 , by wire ( reporter anding li )
a few days ago , the national planning commission , the national economic and trade commission and the national development bank considered and approved the technical transformation project of chongqing 's chang ' an auto stock co. , ltd. to a production capacity of 150,000 chang ' an auto luxury cars .
the total investment value of this compact car project is 4.3 billion yuan and by the end of 1999 , it will first reach a production capability of 100,000 cars and 180,000 engines , and by the end of 2001 have a production capability of 150,000 luxury cars and 240,000 engines .
from january to november of this year , a total number of 100,000 chang ' an compact cars have been produced , increasing by 54.9 % compared to the same period last year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 17 , by wire
compared with the same period last year , both the number of foreign capital projects approved by china and the amount of contracted foreign capital decreased to some extent through november , but the amount of actual utilized foreign investment still grew by 27.01 % .
the data provided by the ministry of foreign economy and trade cooperation today indicate that through november , china 's actual utilized foreign capital for the year was 46.959 billion us dollars , which included direct foreign investment of 40.07 billion us dollars .
january through november of this year , china approved 18,644 foreign capital projects , which was 15.34 % less than the same period last year . the total amount of contracted foreign investment reached 48.462 billion us dollars , down by 27.14 % .
among the recently approved three @-@ capital enterprises , the number of sino @-@ foreign joint ventures and sino @-@ foreign cooperative enterprises decreased substantially , but the number of exclusively foreign @-@ owned enterprises increased by 4.12 % , up to 8,484 .
the amount of actual foreign capital also increased by more than 30 % over the same period last year .
january through november of this year , there were 13 sino @-@ foreign cooperative development projects recently approved by china , whereas there were 10 for the same period last year .
the amount of contracted foreign investment utilized and actually utilized foreign investment was 205 million us dollars and 311 million us dollars respectively , up by 14.53 % and 61.98 % respectively compared with the same period last year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 17 th , by reporter jie qin
the 53 national new high level technology development zones of china are developing rapidly , resulting in a large group of new high level technology enterprises with flexible mechanisms , and quick response to the demands of the market economy and strong capabilities in technical innovation .
the new high level technology development zones of china were brewed in the early 1980 's .
by last year , the total annual income of technology , industry and trade of the new high level technology development zones of china reached 230 billion yuan , with a total profit and tax of 23.8 billion yuan and annual foreign exchange earned through exports up to 4.3 billion us dollars . all grew by tens of times since their initial establishment .
among them , a group of new high level technology pillar industries with fixed scale took shape . there were 405 enterprises with output value exceeding 100 million yuan and 42 large enterprises with output value of more than 1 billion yuan .
in 1996 , the research and developing investment of the enterprises of new high level technology development zones of china reached 6.235 billion yuan , accounting for 3.5 percent of the sales income of enterprise products . more than 13,000 types of new high level technology products were developed and produced .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 18 , by wire
today researchers from china 's institute of traditional chinese medicine announced that they had , using herbal medicine , successfully extracted a new kind of medicine " tang maikang " with special curative effects for diabetes .
concerned experts believed that successful developments and marketing of this new medicine would help prevent the spread of diabetes ii in such developing countries as china , india and africa , etc.
at the " diabetes prevention and countermeasure symposium " held by the chinese research institute of chinese medicine and attended by academicians , medical experts and biologists from the chinese academy of sciences , the chinese academy of medical sciences , etc. , reporters learn that at present there are more than 130 million diabetics in the world and 90 % of them suffer from diabetes ii .
the complications of diabetes ii , such as coronary heart disease , cerebrovascular disease , nephropathy , blindness and lower extremities necrosis , etc. , have become the mankind 's third biggest killer next to cancer and aids .
at present , there are more than 20 million diabetics in china which , after the us , is second highest in the world .
experts predict that , with the development of the economy , the improvement of living standards and dietary habits , in the 21 st century , diabetes ii would prevail in such developing countries as china , india , africa , etc.
in recent years , the annual medical expenses for diabetes in u.s. are about 10 billion us dollars and india 's diabetes medical expenses last year were 610 million us dollars . there are no specific statistics on it in china , but the number of chinese diabetics is increasing by 750,000 annually .
researchers presented , saying that none of the various chemosynthetic , sugar @-@ lowering drugs currently commonly used outside the country have a very great preventive effect against the complications of diabetes .
" tang maikang " granules are able to reduce not only blood sugar , but also cholesterol and triglycerides remarkably , and has special curative effects on the complications of diabetes . the ministry of public health has issued a document specifying it as a confidential variety of new national medicine .
to improve the competitiveness on the international market of such new chinese medicine as " tang maikang " that are geared to the 21 st century , zhonghui pharmaceutical factory of china 's chinese medicine research institute invested 200 million yuan and to build a production base with an annual production capacity of 5 billion yuan in chengdu , sichuan .
it is estimated that the production value of " tang maikang " will reach 600 million yuan next year and 1.5 billion yuan in 2000 .
according to investigations , the annual global sale of herbal medicine is about 15 billion us dollars , but china 's export of chinese medicine is only 600 million us dollars , and 70 % of the medicinal materials are have no added value .
experts from medicine circles predict that the marketing of " tang maikang " and the completion of the production base will help to change the slump of nationally made chinese medicine in the international market of chinese medicine .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 18 th
recently , when talking about hong kong 's prospects and the taiwan issue , qichen qian , vice premier of state council and minister of foreign affairs , said that the central government was always fully confident of hong kong 's prospects .
at the same time , he hoped that taiwan authorities would follow the trends of historical development and take opportunities to make active responses and wise choices for the political negotiations between both sides of the taiwan straits .
qichen qian made the above comments while he talked about international situations and china 's foreign affairs of 1997 at an interview with a reporter from the people 's daily .
qichen qian said that in the nearly half year since the return of hong kong everything was done in an orderly fashion by the special administrative region 's government , and that the guidelines of " one country , two systems " , " administration of hong kong by hong kong people " and " a high degree of autonomy " were implemented effectively .
the special administrative region of hong kong maintained a good phase of prosperity and stabilization .
qichen qian said that we were always fully confident of hong kong 's prospects .
the central government and the people of the whole country always gave strong backing to the special region 's government and the compatriots of hong kong .
we believed that hong kong could continue to maintain its position as a free port and a center of international finance , trade and shipping , and to keep its long @-@ term prosperity and stability .
qichen qian also made a comment on the fact that beginning this year , the taiwan authorities continued to practice the so @-@ called " practical diplomacy " , advocated that taiwan was a so @-@ called " independent sovereign state " , and actively set up obstacles in the negotiations between both sides of the straits .
he said that accomplishing the complete unification of the motherland was the common wish of all the chinese people throughout the country and abroad .
since hong kong 's return to the motherland , relations between both sides of the straits has drawn greater attention .
but the development of the separatist trend on taiwan has greatly hindering the process of peaceful reunification .
we hope taiwanese authorities conform to the historical development trends , and take opportunities to make active responses and wise choices for political negotiations between both sides of the straits .
( end )
xinhua news agency , shantou , december 20 th
due to the improvement of investment environment and the good momentum of development , shantou 's new high level technology development zone has drawn domestic and overseas investors ' attention .
some scientists from chaozhou that live in the us silicon valley have expressed their desire to come establish new high level technology industries in the zone . the president of motorola ( china ) , and some people from ericsson also came to the development zone to negotiate project investment , while firms from taiwan said that they would establish scientific and technological and software development companies in the zone .
at present , shangtou new high level technology development zone has accumulatively invested 1.8 billion yuan and completed construction of 370,000 square meters of factory space . the basic necessary facilities in the zone , such as water , electricity , communication , bonded warehouses , etc. , have been completed and put into use .
by the beginning of november of this year , there were a total of 177 projects entering the zone , with an investment total of 6.4 billion yuan , among which foreign capital accounted for almost 50 % and 7 of the enterprises entering the zone have been regarded as national level new high level technology enterprises .
this year , the whole zone has accumulatively completed industrial output of 3.7 billion yuan , total income of 4.55 billion yuan from technology , industry and trade , export trade of 127.47 million us dollars and has achieved the tax and profit of 360 million yuan .
at the same time , shantou city has also drafted and promulgated more than 10 rules , regulations , policies and measures and encouraged the establishment of technology and knowledge intensive new high level industries .
( end )
xinhua news agency , shanghai , december 21 st , by reporter jiansong zhang
a few years ago , us bristol @-@ myers squibb company established its first joint venture enterprise in china in shanghai , with an investment of only 5 million us dollars .
the us side only took this as a small window for watching over chinese markets .
now , this multinational group has successively added investments of more than 20 million us dollars in shanghai , and will develop squibb ( shanghai ) pharmaceutical company , ltd. into its production and export center in the asia @-@ pacific region .
squibb 's ( shanghai ) gross sales volume of will reach 1 billion yuan in rmb this year .
defu zhou , company board chairman says that through squibb ( shanghai ) , us bristol @-@ myers squibb company has tasted the sweetness of investing in china , and now the group 's total investment in china has exceeded 100 million us dollars .
after a period of " testing the waters " , more and more foreign businesses like bristol @-@ myers squibb have begun to think highly of the investment environment and market potential in shanghai , and have one after another , added investments to expand reproduction , and will gradually build shanghai into their chinese and even asia @-@ pacific region operational and sales center .
the statistics from the shanghai foreign investment working committee show that by the end of november of this year , investments added by foreign investment enterprises in shanghai reached as high as 4.89 billion us dollars , accounting for 17 % of the total foreign investment that the whole city attracted .
faced with an upsurge of additional investment by foreign businesses of various countries the shanghai government expressed that they will work more diligently to perfect the investment environment , provide more standard operation space for foreign businesses , and strive to reach the aim of 1 @/@ 4 of the total amount of the foreign capital coming from the foreign business added investment by the end of this century .
a latest investment environment survey here shows that investors from the us , japan , the european economic community , etc. commonly think that the integrated conditions of shanghai 's investment environment possess an obvious advantage .
shanghai , which has entered into the post @-@ industrialization mid @-@ development stage , has been providing wide investment scope for foreign businesses from various countries .
shanghai is the largest modernized industrial city in china and has complete industry categories , developed infrastructure and perfect municipal functionality .
the financial center , business center and shipping center of the inland of china are also here .
the pudong development and the yangtze river valley development strategy spearheaded by shanghai implemented by the central government have redoubled the strength of this city .
the good investment environment makes the success rate of investment by foreign businesses in shanghai reach 80 % .
whereas the return rate always ranking first in the country is another important reason for attracting foreign businesses to continuously add investments .
the shanghai minhang development zone , which last year achieved a return on investment rate reaching as high as 32 % , has had more than 10 foreign investment enterprises add investments from the first quarter to the third quarter of this year .
in the new pudong area , more than 10 multinational companies , including mitsubishi , sumitomo , matsushita electric industrial , sharp , etc. have added investments of 500 million us dollars , which is more than twice the original investment of these companies .
the rhone @-@ poulenc group of france recently added 24 million us dollars of investment in shanghai to build a new science and technology park occupying an area of 20 hectares , and to organize and establish a asia @-@ pacific region technology center here .
mr. pulor , vice president of the group , said that " rhone @-@ poulenc will continuously expand its business in china , and this is just the beginning . "
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 2 nd
message from the ministry of foreign economic and trade : with the agreement of the state council , china will continue to implement the import taxation policy effective before mar , 31 , 1996 for importing equipment and raw materials within the total investment value of foreign funded enterprises approved before mar , 31 , 1996 until all imports are completed .
( end )
he says that apart from investment , the chinese government also welcomes cooperation of foreign pharmaceutical enterprises to cooperate with china in other ways , such as compensation trade , licensing trade , third party processing , technology transfer , and joint development of new products .
( end )
xinhua news agency , shanghai , december 21 st , by reporter yu wu and correspondent hai pu
according to the statistics of the pudong customs of shanghai , from january to november of this year , the total value of the import and export goods of the new pudong region ( including the gaoqiao bonded area ) reached 8.579 billion us dollars , increasing by almost one quarter compared with the same period last year .
it is predicted that the whole year 's total import and export value will exceed 9 billion us dollars .
this year , foreign trade in the new pudong region shows characteristics of well @-@ proportioned imports and exports and powerful growth .
the processing trade is developing comparatively quickly , with more than 200 state @-@ owned enterprises in the whole region having joined the ranks of the processing trade , having equal shares with foreign funded enterprises in both number of enterprises and recorded contract value . moreover , their production and operation methods have gradually transformed from simple materials processing to fine , in @-@ depth processing of high @-@ tech and high added value commodities .
with regards to the categories of imported and exported commodities , electromechanical products come out on top among pudong 's imported goods , which mainly are computers , integrated circuits and micro @-@ components ; while export gives priority to electromechanical , clothing and knitting type products .
japan remains the biggest trade partner , while the us and hong kong are second and third .
( end )
xinhua news agency , lanzhou , december 22 nd , by reporters zunjing shen and zhiping sun
the jinchuan nonferrous metal company , which was established in jinchuan , gansu , when the chinese government invested nearly 5 billion yuan , currently has a production capacity to annually produce 40,000 tons of nickel , and the average mining quantity per person per shift has reached an internationally advanced level .
as the largest nickel production base in asia , the largest nickel flash @-@ melting furnace in asia and the 5 th of the kind in the world is erected here . it is a symbol of china 's nickel industry technology striding into the world 's advanced ranks .
nickel , called the " vitamin of modern industry " , and with more than 3,000 varieties of alloy , it is the material specially required to develop space @-@ flight , aviation , military and modern science and technology .
in 1958 , china 's geological mineral workers discovered the world 's second largest nickel mine in jinchuan , gansu , with a reserve of 5.53 million tons , accounting for 70 % of china 's domestic proven reserves .
in 1964 , jinchuan company produced the first batch of electrolytic nickel .
from then on , the situation of china 's long time dependence on import for nickel , cobalt and platinum family metals has been changed gradually .
up to now , this place has become china 's largest nickel and cobalt production base and platinum family metals refining center , with an output of nickel and platinum family metals that respectively account for more than 88 % and 90 % of the whole country respectively , being praised as china 's " nickel capitol " .
in 1978 , the jinchuan company was listed by the chinese government as one of the top three bases of integrated utilization of national mineral resources . since then , this enterprise , as a representative of china 's nickel industry , began to step onto its vigorous development road by relying on advances in science and technology .
in the span of 19 years , hundreds of experts and scholars from more than 50 scientific research schools and institutes as well as construction units in china together with the science and technology personnel of jinchuan company , launched large @-@ scale scientific and technological allied offensives focusing firmly on such key problems as mine construction at jinchuan , production maximization , environmental protection , etc.
according to statistics , they have implemented a total of 599 specialty research items , and achieved 186 items of significant scientific research results , among which 139 items won provincial , departmental level and higher level awards and 11 items reached internationally advanced levels .
among these research results , 138 items were applied to production by enterprises to " spin gold from straw " , which greatly raised the production level of china 's nickel industry .
data show that the recoverable valuable elements at jinchuan company have increased from originally 7 kinds to 14 kinds , that the net increase of selective and smelting nickel recovery is 26.5 % and that the rate of smelting recovery of precious metals has increased more than 10 times .
after starting the second phase of the jinchuan project in 1988 , which the chinese government invested a total sum of 2.66 billion yuan in and listed as a national key construction project , the jinchuan company further accelerated its pace of technology advancement .
seeing this as a juncture , it worked hard to improve china 's nickel industry 's level of technology , technique and equipment .
jinyi yang , general manager of jinchuan company said that jinchuan 's second phase project was neither a reproduction or extension of first phase technology or management , nor simply increasing production capacity by expanding production scale . it was an attempt to catch up with and surpass the advanced levels of the world in nickel production technology and techniques , and practice for combining introduced technology and domestic scientific research .
currently , the jinchuan company 's quality products value has reached 89.89 % .
more than 10 varieties of its products , such as electrolytic nickel , sulphuric nickel , platinum and rhodium products , stainless steel products , etc. , have been exported to such countries us , japan , uk , france , iran , united arab emirates , saudi arabia , etc. ( end )
( end )
xinhua news agency , xiamen , december 22 nd , by reporter zongmin zhou
today , tieying li , state council member and director of state commission for system reform , pointed out at the national economic system reform work conference convened here that next year , china would focus on hot issues and tough issues of current economic life and strive to make new breakthroughs in economic system reform .
tieying li said that next year the focus on deepening reform in china 's state @-@ owned enterprises is advancing as a whole and would use companies as its main units of operation to implement comprehensive system innovation for the goal of establishing a modern enterprise system .
the chinese government recently pointed out that it would take about 3 years to extricate the majority of large and medium @-@ sized state @-@ owned enterprises with a deficit from their current plight through reforming , restructuring , renovating and strengthening management . it would , by the end of this century , endeavor to make the majority of large and medium @-@ sized key state @-@ owned backbone enterprises preliminarily establish modern enterprise systems .
currently , the state council is researching and laying down specific plans and policies for the 3 @-@ year state @-@ owned enterprise reform .
the development of a number of large companies and large groups through purchase , merger and alliance that would combine industry , technology and trade and would operate across regions , across industries , across systems of ownership and across countries needs to be encouraged .
according to statistics , at present , china has more than 300,000 state @-@ owned enterprises of which 14,500 are large and medium @-@ sized enterprises .
in the recent period , the momentum of china 's state @-@ owned enterprise reform has obviously increased , and inter @-@ enterprise purchases , mergers and " powerful alliances " have reached a fixed scale .
tieying li said that housing system reform needs to focus on establishing new mechanisms of benefit allotment monetization , and needs to accelerate the process of transforming housing allotments and tangibles to payments .
tieying li said that china had the determination and confidence to reach the target of preliminarily establishing a socialist market economy system by the end of this century .
planned key breakthroughs should be made on some system factors that inhibit establishing new systems so as to accelerate realizing a new phase of resource deployment marketization , benefit allotment monetization , public service socialization , economic operation legalization , and initiating economic system reform .
( end )
xinhua news agency , hangzhou , december 2 nd , by reporter xiquan shen and correspondent lixin ma
exceptional natural port advantages have gradually formed the beilun port in ningbo 's large industrial economic belt , which ranks the third in throughput among china 's ports .
after more than ten years ' construction , the beilun port in ningbo owns 16 docks ranging from 25000 tons to 250,000 tons , making it the largest deepwater berth group in china .
the development of the port spurs on the rural economy alongside the beilun port , which originally was semi @-@ isolated and self @-@ sufficient , to develop into east china 's heavy chemical industry base , an important trade port and the largest export processing zone in zhejiang province .
the effect of both the advantages of the port and the open policies of ningbo development zone have found favor with large international companies .
after 1993 , large projects of over 10 million us dollars , increase at a rate of tens and twenties each year .
the rise of beilun port also gives impetus to the development of some local enterprises .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 25 th , by reporter yongjian lu
the latest news from the ministry of foreign economy and trade says that , up through the end of november of this year , china approved establishing a total of the 302,464 foreign investment enterprises .
according to presentations , among these 300,000 foreign @-@ funded enterprises , there are 182,059 joint venture managed enterprises , accounting for 60 % ; 44,094 jointly managed enterprises , accounting for about 15 % ; and 76,161 enterprises solely owned by foreign businessmen , accounting for about 25 % .
at present , china has preliminarily formed a variety of methods to utilize foreign investment and the capital came from more than 170 countries and regions .
by the end of september of this year , sorted by the amount of foreign capital actually utilized , the first ten countries and regions that invest the most in china successively are hong kong , taiwan , japan , us , singapore , korea , uk , germany , virgin islands and france .
the investment in china by these first ten countries and regions accounts for over 91 % of the nation 's foreign investment amount actually utilized .
asian countries and regions are china 's main sources of foreign capital , coming from such countries and regions as hong kong , taiwan , japan , korea and asean , etc. , with an investment value accounting for over 85 % of the nation 's foreign capital actually utilized .
among these , hong kong is still the main source of foreign capital absorbed by the inland , and accounts for over 55 % of the total foreign investment actually absorbed .
( end )
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 26 th
this year , the economies of the five large special economic zones , namely , shenzhen , zhuhai , shantou , xiamen and hainan , have maintained strong growth momentum .
the annual gdp of the shenzhen special zone this year could reach 113 billion yuan , increasing by 16 % over last year . the financial revenue within the local budget is 14 billion yuan , increasing by 6.3 % .
this year , annual foreign capital actually utilized by shenzhen is estimated to possibly reach 2.8 billion us dollars , increasing by 15.6 % .
following hong kong's return , the economic and trade relationship between hong kong and shenzhen has been strengthened , and the projects of joining the three large infrastructures , such as hong kong 's western channel , are now progressing smoothly .
the shenzhen special zone this year has been promoting the state @-@ owned enterprise reform and the results are remarkable . the whole city's gross industrial production value for this year is estimated to reach 125.5 billion yuan , increasing by 17.5 % over last year .
a three dimensional traffic frame in zhuhai has preliminarily taken shape and the investment environment improves daily . a number of consortia , such as mobil , exxon , amoco of the us , shell of holland , yan gu of japan and cheung kong industries limited of hong kong , etc. have one after another come and settled in zhuhai .
according to statistics , in the first 11 months of this year , zhuhai's recently authorized contracts for utilizing foreign capital numbered 301 . the contracted investment value was 2.46 billion us dollars , and the actually utilized foreign funds 889 million us dollars , increasing by 11.9 % over the same period last year .
the establishment and perfection of a modern system of sea , land and air traffic makes the geographic advantages of the shantou special zone more obvious daily .
by the end of this year , the overall annual throughput capacity of the docks and ports of the whole city will reach 21.12 million tons .
shantou airport has opened 44 international and domestic air routes .
the total capacity of program @-@ controlled telephones has reached more than 770,000 sets and one in every ten people has a mobile phone on average .
currently , shantou city has totally authorized more than 12,000 contracts for utilizing foreign funds , and the foreign capital actually utilized is more than 5.1 billion us dollars .
after xiamen became the first experimental port of direct shipping across the straits this year , large shipping and service companies of taiwan such as lirong , wanhai , etc. successively started regular trips to xiamen .
currently , xiamen possesses five international container shipping arteries such as to japan , singapore , korea , the us , the mediterranean , etc.
from january to october this year , xiamen's total import and export value was 6.41 billion us dollars , increasing by 13.6 % , including exports and imports which were separately 3.52 billion us dollars and 2.89 billion us dollars , increasing by 13.6 % .
it is predicted that the annual total foreign trade import and export value will be 7.7 billion us dollars , increasing by 16 % .
in the first 10 months of this year , xiamen's state @-@ owned enterprise 's export value was 1.637 billion us dollars , increasing by 23.6 % over the same period last year .
hainan special zone's economy this year is estimated to have an annual economic growth rate reaching 6.7 % , increasing by 1.9 % over last year .
this year , it is estimated that totally achieved sales output in the industries at and above the township level in the whole province will be 23 billion yuan , increasing by 16 % over last year .
agriculture has gained further development . the output of grains , fruits , melons , vegetables and rubber gum has all reached or exceeded historical best levels .
the total number of tourists coming to hainan in the whole year has reached 7.9 million people , and the tourism revenue is 5.5 billion yuan , increasing by 10.29 % over last year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , december 27 th , by reporter jianming ding
this year , enterprises in arrears on national industrial and commercial taxes has steadily increased , directly jeopardizing the balance of national finances .
at the same time , taxpayers in tax arrears will be prohibited from leaving the country .
according to renfa lu , through the efforts of the national tax system 's 800,000 cadres , the tasks of this year 's national industrial and commercial tax revenue were fulfilled above quota and 11 days ahead of schedule , and the overall situation is good .
however , the situation of enterprises in tax arrears is relatively serious , especially outstanding is the problem of enterprises in arrears on the " two taxes " , the value @-@ added tax and the consumption tax . this has severely affected the fulfillment of this year 's " two taxes " task .
by the end of november , industrial and commercial taxes in arrears by enterprises all over the country were totally reached 41.9 billion yuan , among which value @-@ added taxes and consumption taxes in arrears reached 30.7 billion yuan .
renfa lu demanded all tax department levels to strictly implement relevant regulations of the " people 's republic of china taxation collection and management law " , and uniformly impose fines on enterprises owing taxes .
enterprises having special difficulties and needing to postpone tax payments must be strictly examined and approved according to law , and upon expiration of the deferment period , taxes must be paid and submitted . to postpone national taxes for a long term on the pretext of difficulties is absolutely forbidden .
work such as clearing up overdue taxes and tax revenue return , export tax rebates , deductions on taxes imposed on beginning inventories , etc. should be closely integrated .
( end )
xinhua news agency , guangzhou , december 27 th , by reporter zhimin jiang
various levels of government in guangdong province in recent years have continuously strengthened investments in science and technology , and have preliminarily established a new system for science and technology investment that is multi @-@ level , multi @-@ channel .
guangdong province has established a natural science fund of over 100 million yuan per year . three province level funds for use science and technology such as new product development , etc. , have been growing at a rate of 10 % per year , which is higher than the growth rate of provincial financial revenue .
in recent years , this province has also established investment funds for science and technology ventures in achievement transformation , investment funds for scientific and technological undertakings , and funds for the development of new high level technology industries . some cities and counties have also established funds for development in science and technology , etc.
the investment of these funds and investment funds has powerfully supported the construction of key provincial laboratories and various research and development centers for engineering and technology , and has promoted the industrialization of scientific and technological achievements .
in recent years , guangdong province has used the zhujiang delta as a leader , focusing on seven new high level technology fields such as electronic information , biotechnology , new materials , electromechanical integration , etc. , and vigorously promoted development of new high level technology industries .
these few years , the whole province has implemented a total of 784 torch program projects and new high level technology enterprises confirmed by the province has reached 569 . among the first and the second groups of key national new high level technology enterprises announced by the state science commission , guangdong accounts for 20 % .
at present , guangdong has established 6 national @-@ level new high level technology industry development areas , such as guangzhou , zhongshan , shenzhen , etc. , and 3 provincial new high level technology areas . enterprises entering these areas have reached 2,580 , among which are 315 new high level technology enterprises .
according to statistics , this year , gross revenue from technology , industry and trade from provincial new high level technology development areas and completed gross industrial output both have large margin increases compared with last year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , nanjing , december 28 th , by reporter futian yang
this year , china 's economically strong province , jiangsu province , has further expanded opening up to the outside world and vigorously improved the investment environment , resulting in its open economy having realized overall rapid development . its foreign trade , utilizing foreign investment , and foreign economic and technological cooperation have all shown substantial growth .
jiangsu is china 's third largest foreign trade port , with foreign trade increasing rapidly by double digits successively for many years .
by the end of november of this year , import and export values of the whole province broke through 20 billion us dollars for the first time , reaching 20.212 billion us dollars , including exports accounting for 13.96 billion us dollars , and increasing respectively by 21.93 % and 17.95 % compared with the same period last year .
in recent years , jiangsu province , in opening up to the outside world , has been making great efforts to further improve the investment environment and has achieved significant progress and strengthened its appeal for foreign investment .
according to statistics , in the past five years , jiangsu province , through multiple channels such as government investing , attracting foreign investment and civil fund raising , etc. , has raised funds and invested more than 80 billion yuan in such infrastructure fields as energy , transportation and telecommunications , etc. resulting in the completion of a great number of energy , transportation and communication facilities .
with the completion and opening of nanjing 's lukou international airport , xuzhou 's guanyin airport , nantong 's xingdong airport , the shanghai @-@ nanjing expressway and first @-@ class highways such as nanjing @-@ nantong , nanjing @-@ lianyugang , nanjing @-@ xuzhou , nanjing @-@ yancheng , etc. , the whole province has formed a modern sea , land and air transportation network with nanjing as the center .
the further improvement of the investment environment constantly strengthens investment confidence in jiangsu for foreign businessmen and the investment scale is continually expanding .
from january to november , the whole province had 1819 recently approved direct investment projects by foreign businessmen , and negotiated foreign investment was 7.694 billion us dollars , the scale of which ranked highest in the nation .
this year , international multi @-@ national companies have continued to jump at investing .
large projects with investments of more than 10 million us dollars were 213 , and negotiated foreign investment was 5.934 billion us dollars , accounting respectively for 12.6 % and 82.4 % of the gross amount .
foreign businessmen have successively been adding to investments , especially those already completed .
according to the statistics of 234 projects alone , contracted foreign capital increases have reached 1.234 billion us dollars , increasing by 26 % and 119 % respectively over the same period last year , and having the best situation in recent years .
in particular , the eleven national @-@ level development zones jointly developed by china and singapore , such as the suzhou industrial zone , the kunshan economic and technological development zone , and the zhangjiagang tariff @-@ free zone , etc. have always been hotspots for foreign businessmen , where this years foreign investment accounts for half of the whole province .
this year , jiangsu province 's foreign economic and technological cooperation undertakings continue to maintain exuberant development momentum .
from january to november , the number of recently signed foreign @-@ contracted projects and labor service cooperation projects , actually achieved turnover and the number of people in overseas labor and service increased more than 30 % compared with the same period last year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , xi ' an , january 2 , by wire ( reporter shaoyang peng )
foreign funded projects approved by shaanxi province at present have reached more than 2400 . the volume of agreed on utilized foreign funds is 4 billion us dollars and that actually introduced has surpassed 1.6 billion us dollars .
the scale of introducing foreign funds ranks first among the five provinces and regions in northwest china .
shaanxi 's daily improving investment environment has attracted a large number of foreign businesses to successively invest in setting up factories and negotiate trade .
up till now , investors from more than 50 countries and regions have established enterprises in shaanxi .
transnational corporations such as the intel corp . of us , the luoluo corp . of the uk , the daewoo corp . of south korea , the siemens corp . of germany , the mep corp . of holland , etc. have successively established joint or exclusive investment companies in shaanxi .
( end )
xinhua news agency , lanzhou , january 6 th , by reporter zhiping sun
gansu province , located in northwest china , saw good economic development momentum last year , and has gradually formed a " high growth and low inflation " development pattern .
in 1997 , gansu 's gdp for the whole province reached 78.13 billion yuan , increasing by 8.3 % over the same period of the previous year ; retail commodity price margins dropped to 1.8 % from 6.6 % of the previous year , whereas residents ' consumer price margins dropped from 19.8 % to 3 % .
gansu province actively implemented the strategy of agricultural revival through science and technology by popularizing agriculture @-@ applicable techniques and production @-@ increasing measures such as film overlay mulching , water @-@ saving irrigation and irrigation via rain collection , etc. , agriculture getting a better harvest with a total annual grain yield reaching 7.66 billion kilograms .
all across the province , throughout the year , 916,000 people solved the problem of dressing warmly and having enough food .
last year , the benefits of the large and medium @-@ sized state @-@ owned enterprises in gansu began to rally . from january to october , the net loss compared with the same period of the previous year had decreased by more than 50 million yuan .
the annual completed industry added value for the whole province was 28.71 billion yuan , which increased 10.3 % over the previous year .
at the same time , fixed assets investment momentum increased and total investments reached 26 billion yuan , increasing 21 % over than the previous year .
additionally , the development situation of gansu 's opening up to the outside world was good .
its annual foreign currency earned from exports reached 400 million us dollars , with imports of 250 million us dollars .
foreign capital actually used in the whole year reached 260 million us dollars .
( end )
yongjiang gu expressed that inland economic development provides five great opportunities for hong kong :
- @-@ it will benefit hong kong 's economy to prosper and stabilize in the long term .
the inland economy has been growing steadily in the long term and hong kong 's economy will benefit from the vigorous inland economy .
- @-@ it can provide hong kong with more business opportunities .
with the gradual opening up of such inland service industries as trade , finance , retailing , etc. to the outside world , hong kong 's service industry will gain a broader space for development .
- @-@ it is beneficial to consolidate hong kong 's trade and shipping center .
by 2010 , the gross volume of foreign trade of the inland will hopefully reach 800 billion us dollars , which will undoubtedly increase the demand for transition and transfer in hong kong . this will be beneficial to consolidate hong kong 's trade and shipping center .
-- it further promotes the development of hong kong 's financial market .
with the deepening of state @-@ owned enterprise reform , there will be more joint @-@ stock enterprises going to outside markets . hong kong will be the preferred outside market place for state @-@ owned enterprises .
this will expand the scale of hong kong 's stocks , improve the stock market structure , and promote the development of hong kong 's bond market . and more chinese funds will also appear in hong kong . all this will consolidate and strengthen hong kong 's position as an international financial center .
- @-@ it is beneficial for reinforcing the international competitiveness of hong kong 's products .
by combining the two places ' advantages through supplemental economic relations between the inland and hong kong , the international competitiveness of hong kong 's products can be strengthened .
( end )
xinhua news agency , moscow , january 8 th
russia 's premier chernomyrdin said at the governmental conference on the 8 th that the major achievement that russia gained in 1997 was that the basic precondition for economic growth was created .
according to the report by russia 's news agency @-@ tass , chernomyrdin said that compared with 1996 , last year russia 's gdp grew 1.2 % , industrial production grew 3.2 % , and the total volume of retail commodities grew 3.9 % , with an annual inflation rate of 11 % , which was a half of that of 1996 , and residents ' income increased 2.5 % .
at the same time , chernomyrdin pointed out that last year many problems also existed domestically ; for example , tax revenue conditions were not good , investment plans were not completed , foreign trade surpluses were reduced , financial and monetary measures adopted by the government were not effective , etc. , etc.
when talking about this year 's work , chernomyrdin said that a new plan of structural reform and economic growth was being drafted and is being prepared to submit to the larger government meeting to be held on february 26 th , for discussion .
according to this plan , russia 's gdp should increase by 2 % next year and the inflation rate should decrease to 5 % to 8 % .
( end )
xinhua news agency , nanning , january 9 th , by reporter zhicheng heng
fangchenggang , qinzhou , beihai and zhanjiang , people call the " dragon 's head " of the southwest 's main passageway to the sea . the construction of the nanning @-@ kunming railway brings unprecedented opportunities for development to the four coastal cities .
the city of fangchenggang has now developed to become one of the nation 's important pivotal ports , having 20 operating docks , among which 10 have berths above the 10,000 ton level . railways and highways directly reach the port .
in 1997 , the port completed cargo throughput of 6.5 million tons , increasing 28 % compared with the previous year . among this , southwest provinces and cities ' goods and materials imports and exports increased nearly once over .
at ports such as zhanjiang , qinzhou , and beihai , etc. import and export goods and materials from the great southwest also grew by more than 50 % over the previous year .
construction of the main passage has activated the flow of materials , the flow of people and the flow of information in the great southwest , and has promoted development in the coastal port cities ' economies .
in order to meet the demands of rapid growth of goods and materials imports and exports in the great southwest , the four coastal cities in the northern gulf have started a new upsurge of constructing ports .
the zhanjiang port , which was the earliest built and is large @-@ scale , now has 31 operating berths , among which 24 are deep @-@ water berths with a tonnage between 10,000 to 70,000 tons , and has an annual throughput reaching over 18 million tons .
at the fangchenggang port , the 10,000 ton level berths , no. 9 and no. 10 , formally began work not long ago . it was followed by preparing to construct larger berths , no. 11 and no. 12 .
beihai has now completed four 10,000 ton level docks and in the future another four 10,000 ton level berths will be put into reconstruction .
the qinzhou port , which started relatively later , actively introduces a market mechanics to promote the development of the port , organizing big consortia and big companies from home and abroad to establish merchant groups to jointly invite businesses , and introduced an ownership system for reconstructing docks .
currently , in the port development zone , 19 proprietary ports with tonnage capacities of over 10,000 tons and 14 proprietary storage projects are either under construction or preparing for construction .
after inspections , demonstrations and under the development zone 's uniform planning , proprietors from home and abroad choose their won projects , bring their own capital and sources of goods , manage their own business , and assume responsibility for profits and losses . china 's first port with proprietors as the main investment bodies will rise from here .
at the same time , the four coastal cities have also actively initiated industrial parks adjacent to the ports . a number of traveling merchants from home and abroad , especially visionaries coming from the great southwest , have successively come to settle here to start processing industries that import large quantities and export large quantities . the prospects are extremely good .
( end )
foreign trade over the year showed the following characteristics :
export grew rapidly , and became important strength in promoting the economy to grow .
last year , china 's foreign trade grew by 12.1 % , and the annual export growth rate reached as high as 20.9 % .
imports picked up placidly .
last year , china 's imports grew by 2.5 % , which is the year with slowest growth since the ' 90 s.
general trade and processing trade developed synchronously , and the processing trade proportion increased slightly .
last year , the gross value of imports and exports in general trade was 117 billion us dollars , increasing by 14.5 % ; processing trade continued to develop steadily , and last year , the gross value of imports and exports was 169.81 billion us dollars , increasing by 15.8 % and accounting for 52.2 % of the nation 's gross value of foreign trade , increasing by 1.6 % compared with that of the previous year .
the state @-@ owned enterprises and foreign @-@ invested enterprises advanced side by side , but state @-@ owned enterprises continued to occupy the leading position .
last year , annual imports and exports of state @-@ owned enterprises were 163.06 billion us dollars , increasing by 12.7 % and accounting for 50.4 % of foreign trade volumes .
foreign @-@ invested enterprises ' imports and exports also maintained rapid growth momentum , and annual imports and exports were 152.62 billion us dollars , increasing by 11.3 % and accounting for 46.9 % of foreign trade volumes .
among foreign @-@ invested enterprises , the growth of imports and exports of exclusively @-@ owned foreign enterprises was especially fast , with exports and imports growth rate reaching 31.1 % and 12.5 % respectively .
last year , china 's imports of primary products increased rapidly , and the structure of exported commodities was further optimized .
last year , annually , imports of primary products were 28.62 billion us dollars , increasing by 12.5 % ; exports of primary products were 23.93 billion us dollars , increasing by 9.1 % , and the proportion of foreign trade volume decreased from the previous year 's 14.5 % to 13.1 % .
the export market diversified , and hong kong played a more important role in china 's foreign trade .
last year , china 's trade interactions with all major countries and regions of the world were extremely active , and trade volumes all has different extents of growth .
the 10 largest trade partners were japan , hong kong , the us , the eu , south korea , taiwan , singapore , russia , australia and indonesia .
the total trade volume with these ten large partners was 272.16 billion us dollars , accounting for 83.7 % of china 's total foreign trade .
last year , not only did china 's exports to such traditional markets as asia , europe , north america , etc. , continue to maintain comparatively large grow , but export growth to latin america , africa and oceania was even faster , with growth rates reaching 47.7 % , 24.9 % and 22.1 % respectively .
all across the country , foreign trade exports are developing vigorously , and non @-@ coastal areas also have strong growth .
the top ten provinces and cities in terms of annual exports were : guangdong , shanghai , jiangsu , shandong , fujian , zhejiang , beijing , liaoning , tianjin and hebei .
the ten provinces and cities totally exported 162.19 billion us dollars , accounting for 88.8 % of that of the whole country .
the five special economic zones ' totally exported 23.18 billion us dollars in the whole year , increasing by 31 % .
( end )
xinhua news agency , fuzhou , january 10 th , by reporter ting xu
fujian province recently put forth that this year it will vigorously promote fujian @-@ taiwan economic and trade cooperation , to further expand the extent of business invitations to taiwan , to strengthen connections with taiwan 's big enterprises and consortia , to strive for a number of large taiwanese capital projects to invest in fujian , and to vigorously develop trade to taiwan and to develop fishing labor service cooperation with taiwan .
some concerned departments in fujian province have recently drawn up new measures to further accelerate the development of foreign economy and trade , to deepen foreign economy and trade enterprise reform , to maintain stable export growth , and to continue to expand utilized foreign capital , etc. , as this province 's important tasks of foreign economy and trade in 1998 .
fujian is one of the areas that is accelerating the fastest in foreign economy and trade development of china 's coastal areas .
last year , this province 's total volume of foreign trade imports and exports was nearly 20 billion us dollars , foreign capital actually utilized surpassed 4 billion us dollars , and foreign contract projects and labor service cooperation funds reached 355 million us dollars .
it is reported that the main contents of these new measures include promoting strategic restructuring of provincial foreign trade companies to focus on developing scaled operations and organizing enterprise groups ; to expand the extent of exporting backbone industries products ; and to successfully organize the foreign business investment and business invitation conference held in hong kong and the ' 98 china investment and trade negotiation conference , etc.
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 10 , by wire
china 's land @-@ based petroleum industry achieved great success in the past year : 10 oil gas fields with 100 million ton reserves were discovered in the whole year .
the decreasing speed of eastern crude oil fields has slowed down clearly , whereas the increasing speed of western crude oil fields has been constantly accelerating . the strategic pattern of " stabilizing the east and developing the west " has basically taken shape .
yongkang zhou pointed out in the meeting 's working report that at present the exploratory development of land @-@ based oil has encountered a series of world @-@ class problems , investment costs are increasing daily , and the tasks of enterprise reform and industrial restructuring are formidable .
with regard to enterprise reform , the strategic reorganization of enterprises should be actively promoted , worker lay @-@ offs and personnel repositioning , downsizing for efficiency , and re @-@ employment projects should be implemented , an assets and operations responsibility system should be promoted overall , the force of reversing losses and increasing profits should be further enhanced .
in tackling key scientific and technological problems , such new oil fields as the western tarim basin , etc. should be focused on , new exploration should be prospected , and more oil resources should be acquired .
at the same time , old eastern oil fields should be focused on , extraction ratio should be diligently increased , and levels of oil field development should go onto a new stage .
( end )
xinhua news agency , shanghai , january 11 th , by reporters chijian zhang and jinhu xie
these large foreign funded enterprises in pudong not only have short construction periods , but also show obvious benefits from investment . the coverage of profit gains exceeds 80 % . some enterprises have already recouped initial investments .
the hitachi electric appliance company , ltd. of shanghai , which started with an investment of 50 million us dollars and has an annual output of 400,000 air conditioner compressors , was built , completed and went into production in the same year , faster than the speed of building factories of the same scale in japan .
the company immediately added an additional 80 million us dollars for investment , expanding the annual output to 1.4 million sets .
in all of last year , there are ten such multinational companies similar to hitachi that added additional investment because of the good benefits gained from early operation , and the total amount of added investments reached 255 million us dollars .
according to analysis by authorities , important reasons for the high rate of going into operation and the rapid repayment of these large foreign funded industrial enterprises , apart from the advantageous investment environment of pudong , also lie in the industry and product advantages these introduced enterprises themselves possess .
according to statistics , among the main products of large foreign funded enterprises that have currently been put into production , there are 102 brands , of which 52 are foreign brands and 50 are domestic brands .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , jan . 11 th , by reporter yuhong qian
the bank of china , the largest foreign exchange bank in china , had good business performance in 1997 , and realized a profit of 6.033 billion yuan for the whole year , of which domestic banks realized a profit of 2.428 billion yuan .
gross profit continually occupies first place amongst every domestic financial organization .
the bank of china actively and steadily promoted various operation systems reforms such as the credit management system , the auditing system and the personnel management system , etc. in 1997 , and also performed exploration in the area of establishing market operating mechanisms .
regarding operations , this bank strengthened deposit work , made rmb deposit growth rate come back , at the same time , through methods such as signing bank @-@ enterprise cooperation agreements and strengthening services to major clients , etc. , developed potential high grade clients .
according to statistics , the balance of deposits in rmb of bank of china reached 591.239 billion yuan last year , the balance of loans for all items in rmb reached 564.452 billion yuan ; the balance of deposits for foreign currency was 35.508 billion us dollars and the balance of loans for all items with cash foreign exchange was 39.787 billion us dollars .
at the same time , the bank of china has also paid attention to bringing all advantages into full play , actively developing the work of marketing ; making the traditional business of international settlement continue to maintain an advantageous position in furious market competition ; and also gained the new development of intermediate services such as foreign exchange settlement and sales , credit cards , agents , substitute charges , etc.
it was learned that the amount of foreign exchange settlement and sales of the bank respectively reached 91.07 billion us dollars and 47.1 billion us dollars last year ; the amount of business of international trade settlement was 139.857 billion us dollars for the whole year .
the issued volume of great wall credit cards reached 7.8 million , the direct consumption value of credit cards for the year was 12 billion yuan , increasing 66 % and 17.6 % respectively over the previous year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , changchun , january 12 , by wire ( reporter fengshuang li )
with the adjustment of enterprise product structures , organization structures , market structures and capital structures , deep changes have taken place in the operating mechanism of the faw group corporation of china , and its ability to meet market emergencies continually increases .
faw is " the cradle of china 's automobile industry " , and during the more than thirty years since being established in the ' 50 s , it has been producing the old " liberation " brand trucks .
nowadays , after product restructuring , faw has established four production bases specializing in medium @-@ sized trucks , light cars , intermediate and advanced level sedans , and popular sedans , and has realized multiple varieties and lines of products .
faw now has basically completed the transition from the era of truck production to that of sedan production . it produces many brands of sedans such as the new model " red flag " and the " jetta " , etc.
last year , faw 's profits were mainly from the production and operation of sedans .
now , faw owns the most advanced automobile technology development center , each year will have a variety of new products coming to market , and is better suited to changes in china 's transportation structure .
under the planned economy system , faw was a " factory " to complete directive tasks of the nation , but now faw is a large @-@ scale automobile enterprise group possessing functionalities such as development , production , marketing , financing and foreign economy and trade , etc.
faw , through corporate restructuring , has separated out some original specialized accessory factories into automobile accessory production enterprises that have definite influences at home .
at the same time , according to requirements of the automobile industry scaled economic developments , faw has implemented large @-@ scale low @-@ cost expansion , and has merged and acquired 26 local enterprises .
three management methods have now formed within the the faw group : special factories directly under the factory , wholly @-@ owned subsidiaries , and holding subsidiaries .
currently , faw has 35 specialized factories , twelve wholly @-@ owned subsidiaries , eleven holding subsidiaries , fourteen share @-@ holding subsidiaries and more than 240 associated enterprises .
with the deepening of reforms and opening up to the outside world , faw , depending only on national investments or bank loans in the past , has started to set about expanding financing channels .
the company has utilized and completely made liquid social assets of more than 10 billion yuan by employing forms such as mergers , acquisitions , etc. ; integrating its key development projects to attract overseas capital , faw has successively established eighteen joint ventures with eight countries and regions .
faw has also utilized the capital market to directly finance , and now owns three domestic listed companies , such as the " faw sedan " , etc.
the main bodies of investment of the faw group is increasingly diversifying , and is gradually moving towards an assets operation and management company .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 12 th , by reporter yongjian lu
this reporter learned from parties concerned that the number of employees in foreign invested enterprises spread all over china has reached 17.5 million people .
attracting foreign investment has become an effective method in relieving employment pressure for this country who has the largest population in the world .
since the establishing the earliest new china foreign invested enterprise @-@ the beijing international catering company in 1980 , china approved a cumulative total of 300,000 foreign invested enterprises .
with the breaking of the ' iron rice bowl ' , quite a number of chinese are willing to seek job opportunities in foreign invested enterprises providing higher salaries .
according to statistics , the successive launch of operations of the 145,000 foreign invested enterprises , the number of direct job holders reached 17.5 million , whereas foreign staff are only a few hundred thousand people .
employees in foreign invested enterprises are dispersed across industries , the real estate public service industry , the commerce and catering service industries , the construction industry , the farming , forestry , animal husbandry , side @-@ line production and fishery industries , and the traffic , transport , and postal industries . in recent years , some chinese employees have gone to work in some sporadically appearing foreign capital financial institutions .
when talking about foreign invested enterprises , quite a number of people think of ' white collars ' with very straight western @-@ style clothes . this refers to the chinese management staff of foreign invested enterprises .
they make diligently study advanced technologies and modern management experience in foreign invested enterprises , and from one aspect , brings along the increase in citizen's quality .
a large number of employees in foreign invested enterprises are blue @-@ collar workers in processing workshops who are too busy to break .
among foreign invested enterprises approved by china , 70 % are industrial projects and the processing industry is on the high side . this is consistent with the situation of china that is characterized by a labor force of relatively low quality and cost , as a result it has attracted a large labor force .
if we consider the fact that a number of enterprises will more or less appear in various regions to support those foreign invested enterprises , job opportunities that foreign invested enterprises had created in china will be more substantial .
china regards attracting foreign investment as an effective method to relieve the employment pressure .
according to presentations , china will continue to put in more effort to attract foreign investment , strongly advocate providing accessories for technologies and capital intensive foreign invested projects , and continue to regard labor intensive processing industry projects as targets to encourage development .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 13 th
a information from the ministry of foreign trade and economic cooperation says that china has approved establishing 300,000 foreign invested enterprises so far .
refurbishing existing enterprises by making use of foreign capital is the main form of utilizing foreign capital in china .
it was learned that , in these 300,000 foreign invested enterprises , the state owned and collective part of their property rights accounted for 57 percent .
the state @-@ owned and collective part of this mixed ownership economy has maintained value and added value in the rapid development of the mixed economy .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 2 nd , by reporter liang zhou
in 1997 that recently passed , the reform of china 's state owned enterprises was further enlarged , the involved scope of reform widened even more and new progress was made in some important fields .
with regard to experimental surveys of the modern enterprise system , of the 2500 experimental enterprises confirmed by every region and department , 1989 have changed systems to be companies , of this amount , 1080 have changed systems to be multi @-@ share holding limited liability companies or limited companies .
in these experimental enterprises , a somewhat more standard limited liability system , corporation property system and corporation administering structure have been established .
in 1997 , the scope of state @-@ owned enterprise reform was enlarged .
the number of experimental cities involved in optimizing capital structure increased from 58 to 111 ; key enterprises on which the state placed extra emphasis increased from 300 to 512 and experimental surveys of the enterprise group increased from 57 to 120 .
the assets and sales incomes of state owned enterprises participating in three experimental surveys of the reform accounted for more than 70 percent of all state owned industries .
by listing stocks , actual money raised domestically and overseas by enterprises last year reached about 130 billion yuan and the state gave capital support through partially refunding income taxes to enterprises that undertook state owned enterprise reform .
the principle of " invigorating large enterprises while relaxing control over small ones " has been strengthened .
last year , the state granted policies favoring large enterprises and groups in fields such as self @-@ run business import and export rights , bank loans , technical transformation , technical innovation , etc. now , among the 512 key enterprises that the state has prioritized , over 120 issue and list stocks at home and overseas .
at the same time , various places have quickened steps of relaxing control over small enterprises . the scope of restructuring small enterprises in some areas has reached over 50 percent and in some of those areas have exceeded 90 percent .
state @-@ owned enterprises also accelerated the pace of mergers and bankruptcies .
by the end of last september , in 111 experimental cities , 389 state owned enterprises were bankrupted and ceased business , with total assets of 14.8 billion yuan . 623 enterprises merged , with total assets of 49.9 billion yuan and altogether 1.13 million people were assigned to other jobs by merging , bankruptcy and payroll reductions to improve efficiency .
in order to guarantee the smooth progress of enterprise reforms this year , various places and various concerned parties will try to find work for laid @-@ off workers by all possible means and help laid @-@ off workers be re @-@ employed through measures such as , new job training , creating new positions , etc.
last year , a total of 2.45 million people were re @-@ employed in china .
( end )
xinhua news agency , helsinki , january 13 th , by reporter huanqing zheng
according to the latest statistics data published by finland customs , in 1997 , finland 's exports to southeast asia grew by 28 % .
up till october of last year , finland 's export volume to major trading partners , such as hong kong , china , indonesia , thailand , singapore , malaysia etc. , reached 10.7 billion finland marks ( 1 finland mark approximates 0.19 us dollar ) , which was equivalent to gross exports of the whole year of 1996 .
the proportion of finland 's exports to this region in its total exports increased from 1 % ten years ago to 6.2 % .
the main commodities finland exports to this region are mechanical and electronic industry products as well as transport equipment , etc.
at the same time , finland 's imports from southeast asia grew by 5 % .
in recently years , finland has been keeping an obvious trade surplus in this region .
finland customs estimated that , the financial crisis in southeast asia may weaken finland 's exports to this region , in particular , the export of electromechanical products would be impacted .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 14 th , by reporter zongming zhou
after the successful implementation of a " soft landing " , the rumbling train of china's economy is running forward smoothly at high speed .
" proper , quick and stable " growth will become the main theme of this year's economic development .
official authorities revealed that this year the chinese government determined that the economic growth rate was 8 % and price levels will be controlled within 3 % .
this means that the whole economic operation situation will maintain a healthy pattern of " high growth and low inflation " .
people in economic circles seem to be more optimistic about the economic outlook .
the growth rate , predicted by concerned experts of the state planning commission , the statistical bureau and the china academy of social sciences , is mostly 1 to 2 percentage points higher than governmental plans .
of course , to a relatively large extent , this depends on aggregate control of using monetary policy as a primary means , or in other words , under the major premises of general tightening , how financial control should timely and reasonably conduct fine tuning .
moreover , the impact of southeast asia's financial crisis should not be underestimated .
on the part of the government , the keynote of a moderately tight macro @-@ economic policy will not be changed .
the key of the current economy is not striving for a higher growth rate , but is adjusting structures and increasing benefits so as to make macro controls which were implemented from the second half year of 1993 obtain greater achievements and push the national economy onto a road of constant , rapid and healthy development .
actually , as main obstacles that restrained economic growth in the past several years -- inflation and the " bottleneck " of basic industries have all been evidently relieved and the macro @-@ economic situation tends to loosen , china's economic development is in a relatively favorable period .
this year , china plans to create an effective pulling force to economic growth through maintaining a moderate and stable growth of investment , consumption and exports .
fixed assets investments will grow by 10 % this year , total volumes of retail sales of social consumer products by 10 % and export growth by 8 % .
at the same time , the financial deficit will be reduced by 10 billion yuan .
after bidding farewell to the age of " the shortage economy " , relations between commodity's supply and demand have changed from a " buyers ' market " to an integrated " sellers ' market " and competition will be intensified .
hence , activating the consumer market , especially the wide rural market , cultivating consumer hotspots and new economic growth points appear to be particularly urgent .
along with comprehensively implementing hardship relief measures taken towards large and medium @-@ sized state owned enterprises , the pace of state owned enterprise reforms will be accelerated greatly , the dynamics of bankruptcies , mergers and assets restructuring will be strengthened , and enterprise deficits are estimated to decrease by 20 % and a number of competitive large and medium @-@ sized state owned enterprises will gradually form .
however , the large amount of worker layoffs that will accompany this will cause unemployment pressure to gradually increase .
china has determined to appropriately place laid @-@ off workers and to strive to control the unemployment rate to within 3.5 % through implementation of a large scale " re @-@ employment " project .
according to estimates , after three years in a row of bumper harvests , if this year's measures are effective , agriculture still has hope of achieving a good harvest .
agriculture's increasing production and peasants ' increasing revenues will create favorable conditions for inhibiting commodity prices and realizing the target of steady economic development .
currently , the degree of dependence on the outside of china's economy has reached 42 % , and the space of utilizing overseas markets and resources is in the process of expanding , but is more easily subject to the influences of the international environment .
under the circumstances of a relative steady domestic demand , the pulling effect of the trend of foreign trade towards economic development is more striking .
taking all factors as a whole , this year's amount of foreign trade will be increased steadily , the import will be increased and the increasing speed of the export will be somewhat slowed down .
people in economic circles said that china should adopt positive and steady measures to solve outstanding problems in economic operations , and special attention should be given to clear up bad assets in time and strengthen financial risk prevention .
forecasting the year of the tiger , although china's economic train will have ups and downs , as long as adjusted and controlled measures are at the right time and appropriate , it is believed that the train will move steadily along the preset track .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 15 th , by reporter yongjian lu
china 's import and export trade has been growing for 15 years in a row , and is beginning to become one of the big countries of the world 's trade , in which the flourishing foreign @-@ invested enterprises have been playing an important role .
since the reform and opening up to the outside , china 's foreign trade is developing rapidly , the amount of imports and exports was up from 20.6 billion us dollars in 1978 to 325 billion us dollars in 1997 . since 1983 , import and export trade has been growing constantly and the momentum has not changed as of now .
in the past five years , the proportion accounted for by imports and exports of foreign @-@ invested enterprises in china 's foreign trade has been rapidly increasing , which has promoted the development of china 's import and export trade .
in 1996 , imports and exports of foreign @-@ invested enterprises amounted to 137.1 billion us dollars , 3.13 times that of the 1992 with an average annual growth rate of 33.05 % . the proportion accounting for total national imports and exports is up from 26.43 % in 1992 to 47.3 % .
in the recently past 1997 , in china 's import and export trade , state @-@ owned enterprises and foreign @-@ invested enterprises advanced together , state @-@ owned enterprises continue to take the leading position , whereas foreign @-@ invested enterprises are still playing an important role .
the intervention of foreign @-@ invested enterprises has increased the international competitiveness of chinese import and export products , and also widened trade channels .
increasing the export of mechanical and electrical products is one of the strategic goals of china 's foreign trade , to which foreign @-@ invested enterprises that were established in china have made great contributions .
in 1996 , among products exported by foreign @-@ invested enterprises , industrial finished products accounted for 95.7 % , of which the value of mechanical and electrical products accounted for nearly 56 % of the total value of exported mechanical and electrical products nationwide .
the proportion had another increase in 1997 .
( end )
xinhua news agency , chongqing , jan . 15 th , by reporter pei li
the director of the china national petroleum corporation , binggang zhu , said a few days ago in a seminar held in chongqing , that not only would the china national petroleum corporation like to cooperate with foreign companies in oil exploration and development , it would also like to implement broad international cooperation with foreign companies in downstream product utilization projects for petroleum and natural gas .
binggang zhu said that , in 1993 , the chinese government issued " rules of the people 's republic of china for foreign cooperation in land @-@ based oil exploration " . since then , new sections and chapters on land @-@ based foreign cooperation in petroleum and natural gas have begun , the range of foreign cooperation in petroleum and natural gas was from south to north and expanded rapidly .
more than 10 old oil regions such as the daqing oil field , the shengli oil field and the liaohe oil field , etc. have carved out parts of their areas into zones of foreign cooperation in order to increase recovery ratios .
up to now , three land @-@ based foreign invitationals have been held , and nearly 40 contracts were signed with 40 companies from 14 countries around the world .
among them , natural gas companies in sichuan and chongqi regions have respectively signed with us companies such as texaco , enron , mobil , etc. for risk exploration contracts in the ya ' an and leshan areas ; contracts for improving recovery ratios in the central north of sichuan , and feasibility joint research agreements on natural gas up and downstream integrated projects in the area of wenhuangduo in east sichuan .
binggang zhu said that , cooperating with the outside to explore and develop petroleum and natural gas resources is an important strategic decision for energy , and was a correct choice that was made after fully considering the national situation .
binggang zhu expressed that , china would continue to expand the opening up to the outside and accelerate the pace of cooperation with the outside .
by further increasing cooperation with overseas , and actively introducing foreign capital , technology and management experience , it accelerated the development and utilization of china 's limited oil and natural gas resources in order to make it meet the developing needs of china 's national economy .
( end )
xinhua news agency , chongqing , january 16 , by wire ( reporter pei li )
an official from china 's petroleum and natural gas corporation , when being interviewed recently by a reporter from this news agency , said that china will further accelerate prospecting and development natural gas resources of the sichuan basin to increase backup reserves and output , and is preparing to fully utilize natural gas resources , and to develop the natural gas and chemical industry .
currently , the natural gas resources found along the upper and middle reaches of the yangtze river are mainly distributed in sichuan province , the chongqing municipality and the northwestern area of hubei province , among which sichuan province and the chongqing municipality 's natural gas resources are the richest . oil exploration area has reached 180,000 square kilometers , with a total resource magnitude of 7 trillion cubic meters .
by the end of 1997 , the totally explored reserves were 510 billion cubic meters , among which the chongqing area had 260 billion cubic meters , and a total of 86 gas fields were achieved .
in recent years , china has been paying close attention to development of the natural gas industry , and has drafted a development strategy for the land @-@ based petroleum industry of " stabilizing the east , developing the west , and increasing oil and gas " .
natural gas has become the most important raw material resource for energy and chemicals in sichuan province , chongqing municipality and areas of southwest china .
during the " ninth five @-@ year @-@ plan " period ( 1996 @-@ 2000 ) , sichuan basin 's natural gas annual production capacity will reach more than 10 billion cubic meters , among which 5 billion will be from the chongqing region . recently added natural gas of more than 3 billion cubic meters will be mainly in chongqing .
administrator binggang zhu said that china petroleum and natural gas corporation will utilize this recently added capacity to develop natural gas chemical industry in the recently approved municipality of chongqing which has a solid industry foundation .
he said that china petroleum and natural gas corporation will build a new large @-@ scale fertilizer factory in chongqing with an annual production scale of 450,000 tons of synthetic ammonia and 800,000 tons of urea at an annual gas consumption of 500 million cubic meters . the total investment is 3.82 billion yuan , among which 1 billion is self @-@ raised capital . the construction period is 3 to 4 years .
relevant experts believe that this project is very advantageous no matter whether you are talking about market demand for fertilizer in the chongqing area , or the reasonable utilization of natural gas resources , or the economic benefits of enterprises are concerned .
moreover , this corporation is also planning to construct an ethylene factory with natural gas as its raw material through co @-@ operating with foreign companies , and will annually produce 300,000 tons of ethylene . this project has invested around 6 billion yuan rmb , and upon completion , will change the state of transferring almost all the needed chemical raw materials from other places to the areas of chongqing and sichuan .
binggang zhu said that during the " ninth five @-@ year @-@ plan " period , the total investment of china petroleum and natural gas corporation in oil and gas prospecting to develop the upper reaches of the yangtze river will reach 10 billion yuan in the area of chongqing .
after approval of the natural gas chemical industry project , more than 10 billion yuan will be further invested in construction .
this is more than the sum invested in the past 40 years .
he said that while the gas consumption of sichuan province and chongqing municipality is guaranteed , the project also takes into consideration the co @-@ ordination with the construction of the three gorges project , which has attracted world @-@ wide attention . it can transport part of the gas commodity to other provinces and cities , and will gradually connect with china 's other natural gas pipes to form a national natural gas pipe network .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 16 th , by reporter ye yuan
china 's pharmaceutical enterprises , which mainly produce large amount of medicines used as raw materials and imitate foreign chemical medicines over a long period of time , will accelerate the development of new medicines and technologies with their own intellectual property rights .
an official from the state pharmaceutical administration bureau said that , starting this year , financial aid for the research of innovative medicines will be further increased , and state @-@ owned funds would give investment priority to the fields of high technology and innovated medical products .
this year , the state pharmaceutical administration bureau will evaluate and decide the top 50 enterprises in the pharmaceutical industry according to new criteria . total annual sales revenue is predicted to be more than 60 % of the whole country 's medicine sales revenue .
at the same time , 3 @-@ 5 % of each enterprise 's annual sales revenue will be used for the research and development of new medicines .
this official said that , at the same time , the state should also guide foreign capital to invest in new technologies , new products and medicine projects in the midwest area , to give impetus to national medicine enterprises to improve products ' technical content and enhance competitiveness in the international market .
china now has about 3,500 pharmaceutical enterprises , which produce 1,350 kinds of medicines used as raw materials and 4,000 kinds of chinese herbal medicines each year , and is the second largest producing and exporting country of medicines used as raw materials , second only to america .
but due to science and technology content being low , the product 's sales price on the international market is 20 @-@ 30 % lower than the normal price , and can only return more than 1 billion us dollars in foreign currency each year .
while in 1996 , importing pharmaceutical preparations alone consumed funds surpassing 1.1 billion us dollars in china .
now , in china , there are less than 3,000 full time personnel engaging in the research of innovated medicines , only corresponding to personnel on the regular payroll of the research department of merck pharmaceutical company of the us .
experts urge that china 's pharmaceutical industry should change methods of focusing on the production of medicines used as raw materials , while paying less attention to development of preparations , and catching up with development trends of the global pharmaceutical industry as soon as possible .
( end )
xinhua news agency , xiamen , january 16 th , by reporter yingrui yu
two convenience supermarkets named " bei shun " started operation here today .
it signified the formal launch of xiamen 's flamply supermarket company , ltd. of which the us 's large scale multi @-@ national group betwons company owns 60 % of the shares .
xiamen flamply supermarkets company , ltd. is fujian province 's first retail industry domestic and foreign joint @-@ venture corporation with trilateral co @-@ operation between the us 's betwons international industrial corporation and china 's xiamen foreign supply headquarters , and the philippines ' feilibeiqiu international company .
according to the agreement , the total investment value of this project is about 26 million us dollars , the first phase investment is 10 million us dollars , to launch twenty demonstration convenience chain stores and a modernized distribution center , then successively develop a total of 300 convenience chain stores in 9 areas and cities in fujian province , according to the expanding of the market .
these stores will generally be in densely populated districts ; the scale is about 400 square meters , operating daily provisions , main and supplementary foodstuffs that are closely related to citizens ' life .
the us 's betwons international industrial company , ltd. is a large @-@ scale multi @-@ national food company with annual sales value exceeding 2.1 billion us dollars .
china 's retail industry 's pace of opening up to the outside is comparatively cautious , currently only beijing , qingdao , dalian , guangzhou , shenzhen , wuhan , shanghai , etc. have successively implemented experiments . the us 's betwons international company ltd. 's chain store development project in china is a relative large move involving foreign funds in china 's retail industry .
( end )
xinhua news agency , london , january 16 th
according to what papers here reported on the 16 th , the latest report of the crude oil market of the world energy institute , with headquarters in paris , said that due to the influence of asia 's financial crisis , this year 's worldwide demand for crude oil would significantly decrease .
the report said that , this institute had changed this year 's growth rate of global demand for crude oil from a previously estimated 2.5 % to 2.2 % , decreasing 1.6 million barrels over the earliest predicted daily average demand .
if the asian economic situation deteriorates or the outside influence of the financial crisis becomes larger , the growth rate of worldwide demand for crude oil may possibly further decrease .
in 1997 , the worldwide demand for crude oil increased by almost 3 % .
( end )
xinhua news agency , jinan , january 18 th , by reporter xueqing dong
mingquan zhang , vice director of shandong province 's foreign economy and trade committee , said that in 1997 , the quality and level of shandong 's utilizing foreign capital had further improved .
in the whole year , the enterprises that were newly approved and that were invested in by foreign merchants neared 1,600 , and the accumulated total already has reached over 20,000 .
the momentum of multinational companies investing in shandong has not decreased .
after such multi @-@ national companies as dupont , hp , siemens , panasonic , daewoo , etc. successively invested in shandong , ten multinational companies such as america 's chevron and eton , france 's elf , shenggeban and the french electric company , germany 's deutsch , uk 's imperial chemicals , etc. have come to invest in shandong for the first time .
by the end of last year , multinational companies coming to invest in shandong were over one hundred , among which 26 were ranked the top 100 in the world .
these multinational companies ' investment projects are large in scale , high in technology , and strong in their industrial promotion .
new breakthroughs were achieved in shandong 's methods of utilizing foreign capital .
by the end of last year , seven enterprises in shandong province issued h @-@ shares , n @-@ shares or b @-@ shares , altogether attracting over 700 million us dollars of foreign capital .
new progress has also been made in utilizing foreign capital for infrastructure , foundation industries and new high level technology projects .
in the area of energy , shandong 's china power generation company , ltd. obtained the state 's approval . with a total project investment of nearly 2.3 billion us dollars and over 1 billion us dollars of contracted foreign capital , it is currently shandong province 's largest project utilizing foreign capital .
in agriculture , the integrated agricultural development project invested in by australia 's southern australia -- shandong stock @-@ holding company , ltd. in the yellow river delta region has a total investment of nearly 30 million us dollars and over 10 million us dollars of contracted foreign capital . it is currently shandong 's largest integrated agricultural development project .
in the area of new high level technology , the investment projects of world famous multinational companies such as the us 's eton , germany 's deutsch , the uk 's imperial chemicals , etc. all have first @-@ class international levels of technology . these projects powerfully bring about optimization and improvement of shandong province 's industrial structure .
in infrastructure , a number of expressway projects have been formally signed with the outside , and a number of municipal public infrastructure merchant @-@ invitation projects have also been announced overseas , signifying the complete start of utilizing foreign capital in the areas of shandong 's infrastructure .
the economic development district has become a hotspot for attracting foreign merchant investment .
last year , shandong 's various types of economic development districts recently approved over 1480 projects utilizing foreign capital , accounting for more than 24 % of the total of the entire province .
over 900 million us dollars of foreign capital was actually utilized , increasing nearly 40 % compared with the same period the previous year .
the total industrial output completed by enterprises within the district for the year was over 47 billion us dollars , increasing by nearly 80 % compared with the previous year , and had nearly 1.7 billion us dollars of foreign export currency , increasing by 31 % compared with the same period the previous year .
as a new point of growth of shandong 's open economy , the economic development district is showing development vitality that grows stronger daily .
last year , the total output of shandong province reached over 19.7 billion us dollars , increasing by over 10 % compared with the previous year .
among this , exports broke through 13 billion us dollars , increasing by 25 % compared with the same period the previous year . export values ranked fourth in the nation , and the growth rate ranked second among china 's main coastal provinces and cities .
( end )
xinhua news agency , xining , january 3 , by wire ( reporter hongwei xu )
news of victory came again from the qinghai oil field in the new year : by the end of december of 97 , oil output reached 1.6 million tons .
this oil field's oil output has exceeded 1 million tons for 7 years in a row .
the qinhai oil field is located in the chaidamu basin in the north of the qingzang plateau , with a total area of 24 square kilometers .
since being prospecting and explored in 1954 , more than 15.5 million tons of crude oil have been produced , and almost 8 million tons of crude oil have been processed .
according to presentations , in recent years , the oil field's dynamics of exploration , development and investment in oil resources has been strengthened , nearly one billion yuan of exploration funds has been invested , and prospected oil reserves have annually increased by over 40 million tons on average .
through measurements and calculations of new exploration data , nearly 4.2 billion tons of oil resources in the chaidamu basin have been confirmed .
currently , proven oil reserves of 22 oil fields are more than 200 million tons , and natural gas is more than 150 billion cubic meters .
this scale is only second to sichuan , shanganning , and tarim , claiming the fourth place of all gas fields in the whole country .
currently , the supplementary construction of two gas pipes nearly 300 kilometers in total length and a natural gas power station with a capacity of 16 kilowatts have been completed and put into production .
the 280 kilometer long third natural gas pipe leading through the residential and scientific research base of the qinghai petroleum bureau @-@ gansu , dunhuang and the ge ' ermu oil refinery with an annual production capacity of 100,000 tons of carbinol will break ground and start construction this year .
putting this project into production will further improve the factory's oil products structure , and increase market competitive ability .
the china petroleum and natural gas corporation has determined to list the chaidamu basin as a major area for china's oil gas exploration , and has planned to achieve an annual oil gas output of 3 million tons , and an annual output reaching 10 million tons by the year 2005 .
people in economic circles pointed out that the rich oil gas resources in the chaidamu basin would lay a good material foundation for shifting china's energy industry center to the west .
( end )
xinhua news agency , abidjan , january 18 th , by reporter daocheng linghu
ivory coast's economy and finance minister engelan said here on the 17 th that , the economies of each member country of the west africa economic and currency union obviously recovered growth , and main economic composition showed good conditions .
engelan said at the economy figures colloquium , organized by the france @-@ ivory coast merchant club , that the economic growth rate of each member state of the west africa economic and currency union has already recovered 5.9 % in 1996 , increased to 6.3 % in 1997 , while this growth rate in 1994 was only 2.6 % .
he said , in recent years each west african nation has also greatly improved import and export deficits and the public investment situation , drastically increasing trade surpluses ; at the same time significantly reducing budget deficits to only 1.3 % of each country's gross domestic product .
when talking about the effects on the african franc ( cfa franc ) by the european union's prepared implementation of a european common currency system , engelan expressed that , people do not need to worry for the cfa franc 's future .
he said , because the economic growth of each country of the west africa economic and currency union has already obviously recovered in the short term , it is impossible for the cfa franc to drastically depreciate like the 50 % depreciation of january 1994 .
( end )
xinhua news agency , shenyang , january 19 th , by reporter jianzhen dong
in liaoning , the old industrial base of china , 21.8 yuan of every 100 yuan of fixed assets investment is utilized from foreign capital .
fixed assets investments utilizing foreign capital have accounted for more than 1 @/@ 5 of this province 's total fixed asset investments .
this is what guozhu gao , provincial vice @-@ governor of liaoning province , mentioned at the provincial foreign investment utilization work conference held recently .
during the six years from 1992 to 1997 , foreign investments actually transferred in have approached 13 billion us dollars , accounting for 21.8 % of the total fixed asset investments in the same period .
guozhu gao said : " for liaoning , an old industrial base , which is implementing large @-@ scale transformation of the old industrial base , but is also poorly @-@ funded , utilizing foreign investment has become one of the main driving forces in economic development . "
during the six years , nearly 6000 foreign @-@ invested enterprises have gone into operation and production in liaoning , and have accumulatively actualized a production value of nearly 270 billion yuan .
in 1997 , the annual production value of foreign @-@ invested enterprises broke through 60 billion yuan , the proportion of annual production values of foreign @-@ invested enterprises in provincial industrial production value has increased from 5 % in 1992 to 17 % .
utilizing foreign investment vigorously propelled liaoning 's economic development , and promoted social stability .
guozhu gao mentioned that , in 1997 , tax revenues from foreign @-@ invested enterprises in liaoning reached 3 billion yuan , and the proportion accounting for provincial industrial and commercial tax revenues has risen from 3 % in 1992 to more than 10 % .
out of the operating foreign @-@ invested enterprises in liaoning , the number of directly placed employees has reached more than 600,000 , and has become one of the important channels in solving the employment problem .
the areas in which liaoning utilizes foreign investment have been expanded from medium and small @-@ sized processing projects to the four pillar industries for old industrial base transformation purposes : the petrochemical industry , the metallurgical industry , the mechanical industry , the electronic industry , etc. and such industries as agriculture , real estate , infrastructure , energy , finance , etc.
guozhu gao said : " co @-@ operative areas between foreign companies and liaoning are still expanding constantly . "
methods of utilizing foreign investment have shown a trend of diversified development .
guozhu gao mentioned that , the shenyang @-@ dalian highway company , ltd. , co @-@ operated with foreign investment , with a total investment of 4.9 billion yuan , has been approved by the ministry of foreign trade and economic cooperation .
china 's largest iron and steel company , the anshan iron and steel corporation , has been listed in hong kong for h @-@ share transactions .
the dalian wadian group , has been listed for issuing b @-@ shares , and has raised funds of 390 million us dollars .
liaoning is actively adopting new measures of utilizing foreign investment , such as developing the listing of new shares , property rights transfer , assets leases , etc.
( end )
xinhua news agency , washington , january 20 th , by reporter hongqi li
yongtu long made the above statement during a speech held by the us @-@ asian foundation .
he said , current world economic globalization is developing deeply , investment flow is faster than trade flow , overseas investment and sales volumes of large western countries have greatly exceeded local import values , the proportion of foreign investments replacing direct imports is significantly increasing .
under these circumstances , using scientific methods to implement trade statistics is important , and continued use of traditional trade income and expense balance methods to gauge the trade relations between countries is already diverging from reality .
during his speech , he quoted the conclusion from the latest research report by an american expert group regarding the sino @-@ american trade statistics problem .
the report was written by famous experts and scholars from the us 's harvard university and the university of california after nearly six months of research .
it clearly analyzed the sino @-@ american economy and trade relation development situations in 1995 , pointing out that after excluding various factors such as hong kong 's transfer trade , etc. , the us trade volume with china that year was between 15.6 to 21.6 billion us dollars , drastically lower than the statistical data of 34 billion us dollars announced officially by the us .
at the same time , yongtu long pointed out that the chinese side understands the concern of the american side over sino @-@ american trade imbalance .
the chinese side will adopt active and practical steps to further reduce tariffs , reduce non @-@ tariff management measures , improve market entry conditions and increase imports from the us .
at the same time , the chinese side also hopes the american side will relax restrictions over the export of chinese high @-@ tech products , gradually jointly realizing a trade balance between the two countries using positive methods , to create conditions for the healthy and stable development of sino @-@ american economy and trade relations .
yongtu long came to washington from boston on the 18 th to participate in speeches .
he will fly to san francisco on the afternoon of the 20 th to participate in another round of speeches .
hawaii will be the last stop of his nine @-@ day us trip .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 21 , by wire ( reporters yun chen , jianming ding )
these reporters learned from the minsheng bank of china that , in the two years since the establishment of the minsheng bank of china , business has developed rapidly .
currently , the minsheng bank 's total scale of assets has exceeded 20 billion yuan , increased 10 times compared with when it opened for business .
the minsheng bank of china was founded on january 12 , 1996 , and approved by the state council and people 's bank of china . it is china 's first national joint @-@ stock commercial bank mainly invested through shares bought by enterprises run by private citizens .
it has characteristics of clear property rights and a flexible operation .
it emphasizes providing financial services and support for privately run enterprises , scaled township enterprises , " three capital " enterprises and new high technology industries . at the same time , it also provides financing services for large and medium @-@ size state @-@ owned enterprises .
according to statistics , half of the minsheng bank 's loans of all kinds are invested to the non @-@ state @-@ owned economic sectors .
at present , the minsheng bank of china has established agent bank relations with 170 overseas commercial banks , and had good results in making profits continuously in its two years of business , and has preliminarily established a good social image domestically and overseas .
( end )
xinhua news agency , tianjin , january 21 , by wire ( reporters jianchang li and hongbo zhu )
the latest statistical data announced here indicates that taiwanese merchants who invest in tianjin achieved good operating results in 1997 .
of the more than 420 taiwanese @-@ capital corporations that started operation last year , for the period from january to november , sales revenues reached 6.7 billion yuan rmb , with corporation profits of 200 million yuan rmb and exports of 150 million us dollars .
according to presentations by directors of tianjin government 's taiwanese affairs office , up to the end of 1997 , the total number of taiwanese capital corporations tianjin approved to establish has reached 1271 , the agreed investment value is nearly 2.285 billion us dollars , and the agreed taiwanese capital is 1.85 billion us dollars .
this director said , in the period from 1996 to 1997 , three tianjin taiwanese capital corporations , namely dingyi foods , fujin carpentry , and xinbaotianyang were listed of corporations in the selection of china 's largest 500 three @-@ capital corporations .
among these , the dingxin international company , which is famous in china for producing " chef kang " instant noodles , had 1997 operating revenues reaching over 5 billion rmb .
fujin carpentry company , which started in the wood processing industry in tianjin , has successively implemented graft reform of more than 20 state @-@ owned corporations in the motherland mainland in recent years , charting a route of expanding inexpensively and developing rapidly , becoming the " fujin phenomenon " widely commended in the economic arena .
currently , the average scale of taiwanese capital corporations investing in tianjin has already reached 25 billion us dollars , and high @-@ tech corporations increased significantly .
this shows that the motherland 's political and economic situation has stabilized , and the investment environment has further improved and the vast market still possesses tremendous attraction for taiwanese merchants .
he said , last year tianjin city adopted a series of measures to improve the investment environment of taiwanese merchants in tianjin .
a taiwanese merchant investment district has been established within tianjin 's economic and technology development district , providing conveniences for taiwanese merchants investing in tianjin such as more preferential conditions and more circumspect service .
tianjin has established a director of the taiwanese affairs office reception day system , in time handling the difficulties in taiwanese capital corporate operations .
these measures increase the attractiveness of tianjin to taiwanese merchants .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 21 st
it was learned that , under the circumstances where the foreign exchange system reform has achieved good results , the foreign exchange position is comparatively relaxed , and the rmb exchange rate is continuously stable , some funds from inside and outside the border have also begun to use all sorts of unlawful channels to exit and enter china to cheat on profits , cheat on arbitrage and cheat on exchange .
because of this , the national foreign exchange management department increased the extent of investigations and starting in 1995 , successively implemented checks on foreign exchange business of financial institutions in guangdong and national financial institutions .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 21 st
a research project aimed at assisting the people's bank of china in implementing supervision and control of insurance laws and regulations formulated by foreign @-@ capital insurance institutions in china , and exploring the system and measures for standardizing insurance , was started in beijing recently .
this project was jointly funded by the uk royal sun united insurance group company and the us lincoln citizen's group company , and was held specifically by the us yong dao accounting firm . the total investment amount is 1.4 million us dollars .
this insurance supervisory project will implement systems analysis of china's foreign @-@ capital insurance and current laws and regulations on insurance supervision , use advanced experience from abroad as reference , and develop a constructive research blueprint that is beneficial to the development of china 's insurance supervision , and the perfecting of laws and regulations on supervision .
the insurance supervisory project started this time will implement more in depth research based on laws and regulations of insurance supervision governing foreign @-@ capital investment institutions that the people's bank of china currently has , focusing on strengthening the management of institution organization and operating procedures , especially the development of an early warning system .
it is known that , the new supervisory law and regulations will improve the current supervisory system over foreign @-@ capital insurance institutions in the chinese market , and at the same time assist the people's bank of china in consolidating the supervisory system over the entire insurance market .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , january 3 , by wire
recently , china advocated using the textile industry as a point of breakthrough in state @-@ owned enterprise reform and problem resolution .
the main topic of discussion for the working meeting of the national textile industry held recently in beijing was to study how to fight this battle .
during the meeting , wanpeng shi , chairman of the general textile association , accepted a joint interview by xinhua news agency reporters and people's daily reporters .
in recent years , the textile industry in china faced serious difficulties .
the state @-@ owned textile industry has incurred losses consecutively for five years . 1996's loss reached 10.6 billion yuan . 1997 has an estimated loss of 8 billion yuan with a loss of 53 % , involving 1.8 million staff , and asset liabilities as high as 82 % , all ranking first in the nation 's various industries .
the problems reflected by the difficulties of china's textile industry are very representative among state @-@ owned industries .
concrete manifestations are : low standard duplicate construction really standing out , historical burdens weighing down , and surplus staff being excessive .
if the textile industry where difficulties are most serious and conflicts are most concentrated can emphatically break through , and take the lead in reversing the difficult situation , it will provide experience for other industries , and strengthen confidence and determination in resolving problems .
secondly , in 1998 , the reserve fund for bad bank debts to be cancelled with the state approval will lean heavily towards the textile industry . the recently increased 10 billion yuan expansion will mainly be used in resolving the textile industry's reduction and re @-@ organization project .
thirdly , in 1998 , the export tax rebate rate of textile products will increase 2 % , from the current 9 % increasing to 11 % . at the same time , more than 15 % of the agreement quota volume for textile products exported to europe and the us will be assigned to self @-@ managed textile export enterprises by directly " delegating " .
fourthly , to improve cotton supply methods , and to allow prices to fluctuate 6 % , and for exporting products using xinjiang cotton to replace imported cotton , a zero tax rate will be implemented .
fifthly , export credits and full value tax returns are to be implemented for the cotton spinning machines export .
sixthly , the payment of basic living expenses and pension and health insurance of laid @-@ off staff is to be guaranteed .
along with the progress of the work of spindle reduction , reorganization , merger , declaration of bankruptcy , and structural adjustments are going on , there will definitely be a large number of excessive personnel laid off and re @-@ employed . it is estimated that 1.2 million staff from china's textile industry will be laid off within three years .
wanpeng shi pointed out that whether problem resolution in the textile industry would be successful or not depends mainly on whether laid @-@ off personnel can get proper settlement . this is the focus and the difficult part of the work .
it must be advanced with a plan , the easy ones first and the tough ones last , and must consider every party's acceptance ability .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , march 6 th , by reporter haikuan lu
according to what officials from china 's national development bank revealed , by the end of last year , the bank has provided financing of foreign exchange for 24 national key projects totally , among which 18 have finished the signing contracts , with a total foreign contracted amount of about 3.4 billion us dollars .
on this basis , the loan quality of the development bank is secured and achieved better economic benefits .
by the end of last year , the return rate on loan principals and interests reached 100 % , and realized an accumulative total profits of 10 million us dollars .
the development bank successfully issued samurai bonds of 30 billion japanese yen for the first time with a status of a national sovereign @-@ level fund raiser last february in japan , and issued yankee bonds of 330 million us dollars on the market in the us at the beginning of this year , establishing a good image on the international financial market .
currently , the national development bank has already done business such as borrowing money among banks , overseas short @-@ term investments , international liquidations and settlements , etc. with financial institutions that have a higher credit standing both inside and outside the border .
the us moody company and the japan investors service company gave relatively high appraisals for the outstanding achievements of the development bank .
( end )
xinhua news agency , new york , march 6 th , by reporter xisheng zhou
on the 6 th , the us ambassador to china , shamjie , delivered a speech at the luncheon meeting organized by new york 's us @-@ chinese relations national committee , urging the us to " use strategic vision in adopting continuous , reliable and constructive policies toward china " , use frank , fully opened dialogue to solve differences with china over some issues .
shamjie pointed out , the us must correctly face the rise of china on the international stage , no matter whether the end of this century or the next century , the us should treat the development of stable healthy relations with china as a big opportunity faced by foreign policy .
when speaking on issues of china 's human rights and intellectual property rights , this ambassador pointed out , china has already achieved significant progress in these two areas .
he felt that , the freedom and democracy now enjoyed by china 's people is something that could not compare with the past . in the area of protection of intellectual property rights , china has already adopted a positive co @-@ operative attitude , and the us should not turn a blind eye to this .
shamjie also suggested , after china joins the world trade organization , the us congress should cancel annual discussions regarding the issue of china treatment as a most favored trade nation , and grant china treatment as a permanent most favored nation .
he pointed out that the debate carried out every year by the us congress on this issue will only be detrimental to the us itself , affecting us merchants ' investment confidence in china , thereby also affecting employment opportunities of americans .
( end )
xinhua news agency , nanning , march 14 th , by reporter hankui lu
according to what the guangxi zhuang autonomous region 's department of transportation has revealed , up to now , guangxi has made use of a total amount of 150 million us dollars loaned from the world bank , the asian bank and countries such as holland , korea , etc. , to construct a water transportation traffic infrastructure .
in recent years , china 's great southwestern region has accelerated constructing the major channel leading to the seas via guangxi .
in order to solve the problem of lack of capital , and expand the degree of opening up to the outside world , guangxi has aggressively brought in foreign capital .
with a total investment of over 2 million rmb , the second phase hinge project of xijiang 's transportation utilized a loan of 80 million us dollars from the world bank . currently 80 % of the digging of the main body project has been completed , and 50 % of the concrete laying has already been completed .
the second phase project of fangchenggang city ( comprising a highway from qinzhou city to fangchenggang city ) , utilized a loan of 52 million us dollars from the asian development bank . the highway is projected to be completed and brought into service in the second half of this year .
beihai harbor 's support facility construction project utilized a korean government loan of 10 million us dollars .
qinzhou harbor 's support facility construction project utilized a holland government loan of 13 million us dollars .
construction of these projects are all progressing smoothly .
( end )
xinhua news agency , weihai , march 6 th , by reporter yanfeng hou
for weihai city , in shandong , which faces korea across the sea , korea has become the largest investment trade partner of this city , in foreign trade and economic cooperation .
according to presentations by pu zhang , vice mayor of weihai city , in 1996 , weihai authorized 113 projects directly invested by korea , with contracted values of utilizing foreign funds of 300 million us dollars , accounting for 58 % and 69 % of the projects of introducing foreign funds by the whole city and contracted value of utilizing foreign funds in the same year respectively .
korean investment enterprises of the whole city totally reached 566 . the total value of imports and exports to korea was 1.23 billion us dollars last year , accounting for nearly 60 % of the total value of imports and exports of the whole city that year .
weihai was one of the earliest areas of mainland china to implement economic and trade cooperation with korea .
in recent years , a number of korea investment industrial projects of relatively larger scale have successively settled in weihai .
of the four industrial projects , in 1996 , in the weihai economic and technological development zone , for which the investment total surpassed 20 million us dollars , there are three that are korean investments .
the project of shandong daewoo automobile parts and components co. , ltd. , that korea 's daewoo corp . is participating in investing in , has a total investment exceeding 2 billion yuan rmb and an annual production of automobile parts and components that could accessorize 200,000 to 300,000 cars .
the project for " heibao " agricultural vehicles that the korea c @-@ win industry co. and the weihai economic and technological development zone jointly invested 29.8 million us dollars in , has a total design capacity reaching 600,000 cars annually produced . at present , the first phase of the project , which annually produces 100,000 vehicles for agricultural purposes , has been completed and put into production .
additionally , the weihai economic and technological development zone also cooperates with relevant regions in korea , and has established so far shandong 's largest exclusive korean investment industrial park @-@ the qingnan syndicate . at present , the qingnan syndicate has approved 12 entering projects , with a total project investment of 73.1 million us dollars and has preliminarily formed three large industries , taking automobile and automobile parts and components processing as the focus .
pu zhang estimated that , in 1997 the total korean investment actually utilized in weihai would possibly break through 100 million us dollars , the value of imports and exports traded to korea would be 1.5 billion us dollars , and the value of processing trade with korea would be 1.4 billion us dollars .
weihai will become an important overseas processing and assembly base to korea .
( end )
xinhua news agency , tianjin , march 20 th , by reporter daojia li
us capital corporations have become the corporations with the most profits among tianjin 's foreign merchant investment corporations .
this was pointed out today by tianjin 's vice @-@ mayor , disheng ye , when he made a thematic investment report for the ' 97 mba class international on @-@ site observation group of the us new york university stone business administration institute .
disheng ye presented that tianjin has a population of 9.4 million and is the biggest international harbor city and external trading shore in northern china .
tianjin 's gross domestic product has continuously increased by more than 14 % for four years .
currently , there are more than 10,000 foreign merchant investment corporations in the entire city , and foreign capital of about 16 billion us dollars , among which us capital is ranked second .
disheng ye said , currently there are a total of 2,000 us capital corporations in tianjin with total investment values of 2 billion us dollars .
us corporations ' investment results in tianjin are generally good , becoming the feature that most attracts people 's focus among foreign corporations investing in tianjin .
last year , us corporations occupied 80 % of tianjin city 's foreign merchant investment , with operating volume occupying 32 % , but profits occupying 45 % .
in 1992 , the motorola company invested 120 million us dollars in tianjin , and investment has already increased to 1.2 billion us dollars in 1995 .
at the same time , this company 's operating volume increased from 50 million us dollars in past years to 2 billion us dollars last year , and profit last year exceeded 350 million us dollars , becoming the most successful foreign merchant investment corporation investing in china .
besides motorola , large companies such as mobil oil , otis , ibm , at & t , p & g , coca @-@ cola , chase manhattan bank , skb , etc. have also invested in tianjin and achieved success .
the 62 people of the us new york university stone business administration institute 's ' 97 mba class international on @-@ site observation group , came from various big corporations , companies , financial groups , and banks respectively . they will implement an in @-@ depth survey of tianjin 's investment policies , finance , education , environmental protection , etc.
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , march 21 st
the white paper , " regarding the china @-@ us balance of trade problem " , announced by china 's state department news office today , pointed out that the unreasonableness of trade statistics determined according to the original site of manufacture principle was where the essence lay in america 's trade deficit with china being seriously exaggerated , and in the sino @-@ american trade balance situation being distorted .
the white paper said that because of a lack of unified original production site rules , each country , when formulating its own original production site rule , often starts out from the needs of its own country , and standards differ , degrees of strictness vary , and randomness sometimes exists in assessing the original production site of imported goods .
the white paper said that now , because economic trade relationships among countries in the world develop rapidly , cross @-@ national investments increase daily , exchanges in international trade are no longer goods produced in an individual country , but " world products " crossing national boundaries .
methods of calculating export trade according to current original production sites , make it obviously difficult to accurately reflect general trends in changes in world economic development . it could even distort the balance of trade situation among countries .
in the past two to three decades , rapid development in the processing trade in some countries and regions had increased the complexity of this problem .
the white paper said , since the 90 's , one of the important ingredients of the growth of china 's foreign trade exports was the expansion of processing trade exports .
china 's processing trade was mainly developed from the transfer of labor @-@ intensive manufacturing industries or work processes from developed countries such as the us , japan , etc. and countries and regions such as singapore , korea , hong kong , taiwan , etc. , in order to reduce production costs and raise competitiveness .
its products rely on original sales channels , transferring from places like hong kong , etc. to traditional markets such as the us etc.
by original production site rule statistics , product exporting countries shifted from these countries and regions to china .
the white paper said that in recent years , two thirds of china 's exports to the us were transferred out through the hong kong region .
these products ' value @-@ added rates in hong kong are far higher than the value @-@ added rates in mainland china . hong kong 's actual benefits are far higher than mainland china .
if hong kong 's larger value @-@ added portions are counted as hong kong 's exports , then china 's trade surplus with the us could correspondingly decrease , even becoming a deficit .
the white paper thereby drew the conclusion and held that , when using original production site statistics , its limitations must be fully recognized , superficial figures must be seen through , and the actual benefit that each party achieves from trade must be seriously analyzed .
this will then help to eliminate misunderstanding , and appropriately solve trade disputes between countries .
at the same time , one must also consider the increasingly growing trend of increasingly close international economic interaction and international investment , service trade , etc. , improve and perfect trade statistical methods , make statistical data objective and realistic , create good conditions for mutually beneficial co @-@ operation among various countries of the world and healthy development of world economic trade .
( end )
xinhua news agency , tianjin , by reporter xuejie man and correspondent baoli qin
asia 's largest fluorine @-@ free coolant manufacturing base @-@ greenkel coolant ( china ) limited company completed construction and went into production recently in tianjin 's development district .
with headquarters established in canada , greenkel is a large @-@ scale multi @-@ national group company manufacturing and selling fluorine @-@ free coolant .
greenkel coolant ( china ) limited company is a joint @-@ venture corporation jointly built by the greenkel group 's northern american company , china 's tianjin development district 's head office and china 's nanfang securities company , ltd. with a total investment value of 50 million us dollars , among which the foreign investment value is 41.85 million us dollars .
the company occupies 70,000 square meters , and introduced a complete set of european and american advanced production line and testing equipment , to produce greenkel 's new series of fluorine @-@ free coolants .
the currently completed first phase project annual production volume that could reach 10,000 tons , completely exported for selling overseas , with annual production values reaching 200 million us dollars , is the fluorine @-@ free coolant production base that currently has the largest production scale , and the most advanced equipment and technology in asia .
the completion and entering into production of this production base , signifies that china 's fluorine @-@ free coolant production has stepped into the world 's leading ranks .
( end )
xinhua news agency , ji ' nan , april 2 nd
with the continual increase of global effectiveness , foreign merchant investment corporations have become the prominent growth point of shandong 's national economy .
currently , there are more than 10,000 foreign @-@ capital corporations operating in shandong province . last year , they completed sales values of 122.1 billion yuan , with realizable profits of 5.3 billion yuan .
due to continuing improvement in the investment environment , foreign capital corporations ' benefits are good , multinational companies in shandong have moved from the exploratory investment stage into the scaled investment stage .
shandong 's samsung electronic communication company , ltd. has increased investment twice , becoming one of the three largest manufacturing bases of korea 's samsung group in china .
shandong province 's foreign @-@ capital enterprise with the most exports @-@ the qingdao sanmei electrical machinery company , ltd. , has increased investment 5 to 6 times successively , and accumulated investment has reached more than 90 million us dollars .
( end )
xinhua news agency , buenos aires , april 7 th , by reporter hong xue
the handover ceremony for china mechanical products purchased by argentina 's larioja province using a loan provided by the bank of china , was held today in catamarca city of this province .
this is the first time that china 's mechanical products have entered argentina in large quantities .
minister of china 's mechanical industry ministry , xuding bao , who came specially to attend the handing @-@ over and taking @-@ over ceremony , handed this group of mechanical products whose total value is 5.5 million us dollars , to masa , the governor of larioja province . these products included more than 1800 sets of tractors and road @-@ building machinery .
minister xuding bao and governor masa delivered ebullient speeches in the ceremony , both hoped to use this as a start to expand trade between the two countries and to promote development in other areas of the two countries .
recently , the bank of china provided argentina with loan of 20 million us dollars .
larioja province is the first to use this loan to import china 's products .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , april 2 nd
the president of the people 's bank of china , xianglong dai pointed out here yesterday that china will continue to expand the opened @-@ up areas , strengthen co @-@ operation with foreign financial institutions , and promote financial and economic trade interaction between china and other countries .
xianglong dai made this comment at the ceremony for the approval for the ocean bank group to establish a beijing branch .
he said , china macroscopic economic readjustment and control in recent years has been successful .
on this foundation , it is forecasted that this year , the goals of the economy maintaining growth of 8 % , and controlling the retail price index to below 6.1 % , can be completely achieved ; in the coming few years , china can still maintain an economic growth rate of 8 % to 9 % and a retail price increase rate of below 6 % .
therefore , china 's international income and expenses can maintain the good situation , the rmb exchange rate is moving towards stabilization , and the investment environment continue to improve .
xianglong dai said , in recent years , foreign capital financial institutions have become an important formative element of china 's financial system . by the end of december of last year , foreign capital financial institution 's total assets had reached 30 billion us dollars , an increase of 56 % over last year ; and 8 foreign capital banks obtained approval to undertake rmb business in shanghai 's pudong .
up to now , china already has 158 foreign capital operation @-@ type financial institutions , 132 of which are branches of foreign capital banks , and the number of representative office of foreign capital financial institutions has reached 528 .
the ocean bank group is one of the main international banks in australia . it opened a representative office in beijing in 1986 .
on march 21 st of this year , it obtained approval to establish a branch in beijing .
before this , it had established a branch in shanghai .
( end )
xinhua news agency , tianjin , april 11 , by reporter xuejie man and correspondent weizhong dong
the tianjin harbor bonded area completed and exceeded all the economic targets for the first quarter of this year , maintaining a stable lead among all bonded areas in china .
the tianjin harbor bonded area was established through state department approval in may 1991 , in november of the same year , formally invited businessmen , and closed customs and operating in april 1992 .
after nearly 5 years of construction , it has become the largest and functionally complete bonded area in northern china .
up to now , it has a planned surface area of 7 square kilometers , already developed land of 3.8 square kilometers , accumulated investments in infrastructure facilities of more than 1.2 billion rmb , and has formed complete water , electricity , gas , heat , telecommunications infrastructures , etc.
currently there are investors from 73 countries and regions of the world and 25 domestic provinces , cities , and autonomous regions investing here . registered corporations have exceeded 3000 . the total amount of agreed investment exceeds 3 billion us dollars , among which foreign investment reaches 2 billion us dollars .
the scale of the international flow of goods and the transfer trade is continuously increasing . the total accumulated value of goods in and out of the district has already exceeded 6 billion us dollars . the number of international containers in and out of the district reaches more than 6000 standard containers per month .
last year the amount of exports was 460 million us dollars , and the value of transfer trade goods was 130 million us dollars , occupying the leading level among bonded areas of the country .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , april 17 th , by reporter tong qian
china's railway ministry will use the railway project world bank loan to build a railway specific communication network to link the whole country .
after aggressive competition , the zhongyi international bidding company won the bid , and will together with the china electrical import and export affiliation company , provide the railway ministry with a total volume of 220,000 lines of program controlled switch equipment , with a total contract value of close to 20 million us dollars .
railway ministry personnel presented that , this network construction is a part of the national railway backbone telecommunication reform project .
after it is built and put into service , it will benefit passengers and goods owners from all over china , including the hong kong and macao regions , to check the situation of railway operations via websites , to reserve passenger tickets or goods allocation in advance , and to track departure and arrival locations of goods .
in recent years , in the area of infrastructure construction , china has begun to utilize loans from international financial organizations to implement international competitive bidding procurement .
this procurement was implemented following international conventions , finally determining that the program controlled switch products of shanghai bell , represented by the china electrical import and export affiliation company , has won the bid .
this was also one of the most important orders won by china's domestically manufactured program controlled switching products .
it was learned that the contract parties already held the signature ceremony yesterday at beijing's diaoyutai state hotel .
all the equipment will be completely manufactured and installed within this year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , guangzhou , april 18 th , by reporters xiaohui ju and meisi shi
china 's economic and trade co @-@ operation network was formally launched today in guangzhou , to collectively introduce economic and trade merchant inviting projects from various regions of china to locals and foreigners .
the china economic and trade co @-@ operation information network center receives leadership from the state development planning commission and the china information association , and is jointly organized and built by economic co @-@ ordination departments of some chinese provincial and municipal governments .
at the annual spring and autumn china export commodity trading fair , the network center also regularly holds merchant invitation meetings , taking advantage of the opportunity of traveling merchants from various countries gathering for the guangzhou fair , to organize and launch economy and trade co @-@ operation project talks .
currently , this type of economic and trade co @-@ operation information announcement meeting has been held twice already .
( end )
xinhua news agency , tokyo , april 23
the report that was recently published by the research committee on " china 's future and the asia @-@ pacific economy " under the economic research institute of japan 's economic planning department , said that the fast growth of china 's economy will benefit the development of the asia @-@ pacific region .
this report predicted that by the year 2010 , the proportion that china 's economy accounts for in the world economy will rise from the current 2.5 % to 5 % or 6 % ; the proportion that china 's exports accounts for among total world exports will expand from the current 3 % to 10 % .
the report said , china 's rapid economic growth should not be viewed as a type of threat , but should be viewed as a positive ingredient helping to promote an asia @-@ pacific region filled with life and developing .
the report hoped that the japanese government and society would be able to provide co @-@ operation in areas such as china 's interior development , environmental control and a full @-@ fledged financial capital market , etc.
the report also pointed out , due to the technological development and the rise in productivity , the possibility that china will continue to maintain an economic growth rate of 8 % to 10 % in the next 10 plus years , is very great .
( end )
xinhua news agency , washington dc , april 28 th , by reporter jingsheng zhai
yuan chen , vice president of the people 's bank of china , delivered a written speech at the 48 th meeting of the temporary committee of the international monetary fund organization here on the 28 th . he called for all countries in the world to strengthen co @-@ operation and to promote the continuous development of the world economy .
he said that in 1996 world economic growth had some acceleration , that the pressure of global inflation was further reduced , and that the level of world economy integration significantly increased .
but the long @-@ term continuous development of the world economy still faces quite a lot of macro @-@ economic imbalance factors and structural obstacles . apart from each country 's efforts to mainly depend on itself , strengthening international co @-@ operation will help to eliminate stumbling factors in the growth of the world economy .
he pointed out that in some european industrial countries current economy lagging is mainly due to structural obstacles such as over @-@ burdened social welfare systems and the ossification of labor markets that have been existing for a long time , etc.
accelerating the pace of structural reform will not only be beneficial to promoting the economic recovery of these countries and the development of the european economy and currency union , but will also have active effects on the continuous growth of the world economy .
other industrial countries should also make use of the present opportunity while the economic situation is still good to reduce budget deficits and increase the dynamics of structural reform .
yuan chen believed that because most of the developing countries are actively promoting structural reform and adopting measures to stabilize their economy , these countries as a unified body have maintained a growth rate of above 6 % for 5 years running . moreover , they have good prospects to continue to maintain such a strong growth trend .
the contribution of developing countries to the development of the world economy is increasingly large . the degree of contact with one another and with other countries in the world is increasing , and the disparities in economic growth between regions appear to be on a narrowing trend .
at the same time yuan chen emphasized that economic development among the developing countries is still not even . the economy in many countries is still very fragile . their debts are still heavy and the poverty situation is worsening . in the spirit of development and co @-@ operation , the international community should adopt realistic and feasible measures to help these developing countries solve these problems .
he said that in recent years the signs of globalization of the world economy are becoming more and more obvious , and that the world economy has been greatly pushed towards prosperity .
the unification of the world economy is intensifying with each passing day . facing the challenges brought by globalization , each country should continuously implement sound economic policies and deepen structural reform so as to enjoy the most benefits from the process of globalization and to minimize the negative effects .
yuan chen also pointed out that what causes worry is that some industrial countries take labor standards , environment and human rights , etc. , as excuses to frequently adopt trade protection measures . this severely affects the future of world economy and trade .
on the other hand , there are still a number of developing countries that have not benefited from the progress of globalization .
in this connection , he appealed to the industrial countries to eliminate obstacles to the progress of the globalization of the world economy as soon as possible .
on behalf of the chinese government he welcomed the participants to hong kong , china , in september of this year to attend the next meeting and the 1997 annual meeting of the temporary committee of the international monetary fund organization .
( end )
xinhua news agency , wuhan , april 3 rd , by reporter weibin tang
the wuhan representative office of the holland trade promotion association recently was officially established in wuhan .
this is the first representative office that the holland trade promotion association has established in china .
according to presentations , the main task of this representative office is to enable government and enterprises of holland to learn duly about the economic development of hubei , to help enterprises in holland confirm possibilities of trade and investment , and to assist with contacts between enterprises in holland , local enterprises and governmental offices , provide consultation , etc.
mr. howdeyen , holland 's ambassador to china , said at the opening ribbon cutting ceremony that the reason why he had chosen to establish an office in wuhan is because the water and land transportation of wuhan is convenient and the geographic location is advantageous .
furthermore government and industry circles in holland all believe that hubei is an area with high potential . possibilities for cooperation exist with holland in many areas such as transportation , infrastructure , agriculture , energy , etc.
as early as the 80 's the philips company , a dutch multinational company , cooperated with wuhan and established the first joint venture company , changfei optical fiber and optical fiber cable , ltd.
as the 90 's are entered , the cooperation between the two parties continues to develop .
not long ago the wuhan office of the dutch bank was also officially established .
qingping meng , vice @-@ governor of hubei province said that the establishment of the wuhan representative office of the holland trade promotion association indicates that friendly relationships and economic and trade cooperation between government , industry and commerce circles in holland and wuhan in hubei has gone up to a new phase .
we hope that such cooperation will develop uninterruptedly and yield plentiful and substantial fruit .
( end )
xinhua news agency , guangzhou , april 23 rd , by reporter correspondent shengmin zhao
guangzhou 's private sector economy is developing swiftly , enterprise scale is gradually enlarging , and has begun to develop towards the area of high and new technology industries .
according to statistics , by the first quarter of this year , the number of registered private enterprises in guangzhou has reached 7646 .
there are 97,963 employed people , and registered capital of private enterprises is more than 3.08 billion yuan , respectively 10 % to 20 % higher than that of the same period of the previous year .
in the first quarter of this year , the development of guangzhou 's privately owned enterprises again showed many characteristics : all walks of life are developing extensively , and the development of industry and commerce is remarkable .
privately owned industry and commercial enterprises total 5836 .
there are 76,724 employed people , respectively increasing by 9.33 % and 11.22 % than the end of last year .
additionally , the input of registered capital of privately owned enterprises has shown a trend of substantial growth .
by the end of the first quarter of this year , the registered capital of guangzhou 's privately owned enterprises is 3.08 billion yuan , 24.97 % higher than that of the end of last year .
guangzhou 's private enterprises have begun to set foot in the area of high and new technology industries , and the rate of development is considerably fast .
in the first quarter of this year , the number of science and technology consulting enterprises in guangzhou has reached 534 , more than double of that of the same period of the previous year .
with the operation scale constantly expanding , the economic benefits have increased significantly .
in the first quarter of this year , guangzhou 's private industries , construction industries and traffic and transportation industries have achieved a total output value of 412 million yuan , 22.62 % higher than that of the same period of the previous year .
( end )
xinhua news agency , madrid , august 31 st , by reporter tairan hu
spanish foreign affairs minister solana reiterated on august 31 st that spain opposed the us's blockade of cuba , and also did not agree with intervening in haiti .
at the same time , solana expressed that , the spanish government was deeply concerned over cuba's " dire situation of illegal immigrants " and would like to make necessary efforts to facilitate talks between havana and washington to look for solutions .
this minister said this at a press conference introducing the work and tasks of spain taking over the un security council chair starting on september 1 st .
he also announced that spain had already accepted a request from the un , and prepared to send an air transport and 20 soldiers to rwanda within the next few days to participate directly in un peacekeeping military operations .
( end )
xinhua news agency , bonn , august 31 st , by reporter zhongfa li
the spokesman for the german government fughr expressed on the 31 st that , germany and russia are prepared to strengthen international anti @-@ smuggling activities of nuclear material , and also proposed to strengthen communication of information in this area by intelligence departments from both countries .
fughr said , german chancellor kohl and russian president yeltsin hoped " to smoothly investigate the smuggling of nuclear materials that have already been discovered , and stop new smuggling activities of nuclear materials in time " .
kohl and yeltsin also discussed the issue of bosnia @-@ herzegovina after attending the ceremony for the withdrawal of the last group of russian troops from germany .
both sides expressed hopes to " peacefully resolve the bosnia @-@ herzegovina issue " on the basis of a peace plan .
both sides also plan to further strengthen co @-@ operation between both countries in policy areas of foreign affairs and security , and strengthen joint military exercises between the two countries within the scope of co @-@ operation between russia and nato .
( end )
xinhua news agency , beijing , april 23 rd
according to a " people 's daily " report , the ' 94 annual budget plan working conference for departments under the ccp was recently convened here .
the meeting requested that departments under the ccp calculate their funds meticulously , manage strictly , spend according to income , and take the lead in living an austere life to ensure that this year 's budget task is satisfactorily completed .
departments under the central commitee should take the lead in responding to the call of the central committee of the ccp and the state council , consider the overall situation of guaranteeing the central task of economic construction , strengthen budget management and doing the financial management work well
( end )
xinhua news agency , moscow , august 31 st , by reporter rong xie
the international information telegraph agency reports that the heavy @-@ duty transport spaceship " progress m @-@ 24 " was sent into outer space from the baikonur spaceship launching site on august 25 .
carried aboard were 639 kilograms of such articles as food , water , fuel , scientific instruments , etc.
by design , the heavy @-@ duty spaceship " progress m @-@ 24 " , in unmanned operating mode , can perform automated docking with the orbital station .
but on the 27 th , the first attempt of the spaceship to dock with the orbital station failed .
on the 30 th , the spaceship attempted to dock with the orbital station again , and the second docking failed again .
today , the technology committee of russian space @-@ flight control center held a meeting to analyze the reasons for the two failed dockings and decided to perform a third docking attempt on september 2 nd .
this time will employ manual control method by the astronauts working in the orbital station to achieve docking from the orbital station .
this will be the last chance for this cargo spaceship to dock with the orbital station because the fuel on the spaceship is already very limited .
if it fails , a new cargo spaceship must be launched to transport cargo to the orbital station .
also , the russian correspondence agency @-@ tass reported that the inter @-@ department committee of the russian space orbital station operations will also convene a meeting today to research countermeasures .
ivanov , chairman of this committee and commander of russian military space force , said that the third docking will be completed successfully because space experts on the ground have put out all efforts for this .
austelouwumuff , vice @-@ bureau chief of russian space bureau also pointed out that all work is currently being carried out normally .
he denied the statement that the food reserve on the orbital station is only enough to last 10 days .
he said that the food on the " peace " orbital station could still meet needs for 40 days .
moreover , even if the third docking fails , a new cargo spaceship can still be launched to transport materials .
( end )
xinhua news agency , paris , september 1 st , by reporter youhao zhang
